

 The big house did prove to be a Palace Beautiful, though it took some time for everyone to get in, and Beth found it very hard to get past the lions. Old Mr. Laurence was the biggest one, but after he had visited, said something funny or kind to each of the girls, and talked about old times with their mother, nobody felt much afraid of him, except shy Beth. The other obstacle was the fact that they were poor and Laurie rich, because this made them uncomfortable about accepting kindness which they could not return. But, after a while, they found that he considered them the ones who were helping him, and could not do enough to show how grateful he was for Mrs. March's motherly welcome, their cheerful company, and the comfort he found in their simple home. So they soon forgot their pride and exchanged kindnesses without worrying about which side gave more.

All kinds of pleasant things happened around that time, because the new friendship grew like grass in spring. Everyone liked Laurie, and he privately told his tutor that "the Marches were truly wonderful girls." With the wonderful enthusiasm of young people, they welcomed the lonely boy into their group and made much of him, and he found something very special in the innocent friendship of these kind-hearted girls. Having never known a mother or sisters, he was quick to feel the good influence they brought around him, and their busy, lively ways made him ashamed of the lazy life he led. He grew tired of books, and found people so interesting now that Mr. Brooke was obliged to write very unsatisfactory reports, because Laurie was always skipping his lessons and running over to the Marches'.

"Never mind, let him take a holiday, and make it up afterward," said the old gentleman. "The good lady next door says he is studying too hard and needs young company, fun, and exercise. I suspect she is right, and that I've been babying the fellow as if I were his grandmother. Let him do what he likes, as long as he is happy. He can't get into trouble in that quiet little home over there, and Mrs. March is doing more for him than we can."

What good times they had, to be sure. Such plays and acting, such sleigh rides and skating trips, such pleasant evenings in the old sitting room, and now and then such cheerful little parties at the great house. Meg could walk in the greenhouse whenever she liked and enjoy the flowers, Jo read through the new library eagerly, and delighted the old gentleman with her opinions, Amy drew pictures and enjoyed beauty to her heart's content, and Laurie played 'master of the house' in the most delightful way.

But Beth, though longing for the grand piano, could not find the courage to go to the 'Mansion of Happiness', as Meg called it. She went once with Jo, but the old gentleman, not knowing about her shyness, stared at her so hard from under his heavy eyebrows, and said "Hey!" so loudly, that he frightened her so much her 'feet trembled on the floor', she never told her mother, and she ran away, saying she would never go there again, not even for the dear piano. No persuasion or temptation could overcome her fear, until, the information reaching Mr. Laurence's ears somehow, he set about fixing things. During one of the brief visits he made, he cleverly led the conversation to music, and talked at length about great singers he had seen, beautiful organs he had heard, and told such wonderful stories that Beth found it impossible to stay in her distant corner, but crept nearer and nearer, as if drawn in. At the back of his chair she stopped and stood listening, with her big eyes wide open and her cheeks red with excitement about this unusual experience. Paying no more attention to her than if she had been a fly, Mr. Laurence talked on about Laurie's lessons and teachers. And soon, as if the thought had just occurred to him, he said to Mrs. March...

"The boy neglects his music now, and I'm glad of it, because he was becoming too fond of it. But the piano needs to be played. Wouldn't some of your girls like to come over, and practice on it now and then, just to keep it in tune, you know, ma'am?"

Beth took a step forward, and pressed her hands tightly together to keep from clapping them, because this was an irresistible opportunity, and the thought of practicing on that splendid instrument quite took her breath away. Before Mrs. March could reply, Mr. Laurence went on with a small nod and smile...

"They needn't see or speak to anyone, but just come in at any time. Because I'm in my study at the other end of the house, Laurie is out a great deal, and the servants are never near the drawing room after nine o'clock."

Here he stood up as if going, and Beth made up her mind to speak, because that last arrangement left nothing more to be wished for. "Please, tell the young ladies what I say, and if they don't care to come, why, never mind." Here a little hand slipped into his, and Beth looked up at him with a face full of gratitude, as she said, in her earnest yet timid way...

"Oh sir, they do care, very, very much!"

"Are you the musical girl?" he asked, without any startling "Hey!" as he looked down at her very kindly.

"I'm Beth. I love it so much, and I'll come, if you are quite sure nobody will hear me, and be disturbed," she added, afraid of being rude, and trembling at her own boldness as she spoke.

"Not a soul, my dear. The house is empty half the day, so come and play as much as you like, and I shall be grateful to you."

"How kind you are, sir!"

Beth blushed like a rose under the friendly look he gave her, but she was not frightened now, and gave the hand a grateful squeeze because she had no words to thank him for the precious gift he had given her. The old gentleman softly brushed the hair off her forehead, and, bending down, he kissed her, saying, in a tone few people ever heard from him...

"I had a little girl once, with eyes like these. God bless you, my dear! Good day, madam." And away he went, in a great hurry.

Beth shared her happiness with her mother, and then rushed up to tell the wonderful news to her family of invalids, as the girls were not home. How happily she sang that evening, and how they all laughed at her because she woke Amy in the night by playing the piano on her face in her sleep. Next day, having seen both the old and young gentleman leave the house, Beth, after two or three retreats, finally got in at the side door, and made her way as quietly as any mouse to the drawing room where her beloved piano stood. By accident, of course, some pretty, easy music lay on the piano, and with trembling fingers and frequent stops to listen and look around, Beth at last touched the great instrument, and immediately forgot her fear, herself, and everything else except the wonderful joy which the music gave her, because it was like the voice of a beloved friend.

She stayed until Hannah came to take her home for dinner, but she had no appetite, and could only sit and smile at everyone in a general state of happiness.

After that, the little brown hood slipped through the hedge nearly every day, and the great drawing room was visited by a musical spirit that came and went unseen. She never knew that Mr. Laurence opened his study door to hear the old-fashioned tunes he loved. She never saw Laurie stand guard in the hallway to keep the servants away. She never suspected that the music books and new songs which she found on the music rack were put there especially for her, and when he talked to her about music at home, she only thought how kind he was to share things that helped her so much. So she enjoyed herself deeply, and found, which isn't always the case, that her wish when granted was everything she had hoped. Perhaps it was because she was so grateful for this blessing that a greater one was given her. At any rate she deserved both.

"Mother, I'm going to make Mr. Laurence a pair of slippers. He is so kind to me, I must thank him, and I don't know any other way. May I do it?" asked Beth, a few weeks after that memorable visit of his.

"Yes, dear. It will please him very much, and be a nice way of thanking him. The girls will help you with them, and I will pay for the materials," replied Mrs. March, who took special pleasure in granting Beth's requests because she so rarely asked anything for herself.

After many serious discussions with Meg and Jo, the pattern was chosen, the materials bought, and the slippers were begun. A cluster of cheerful pansies on a dark purple background was considered very suitable and pretty, and Beth worked away early and late, with occasional help with the difficult parts. She was a quick and skilled little needleworker, and they were finished before anyone grew tired of them. Then she wrote a short, simple note, and with Laurie's help, got them placed secretly on the study table one morning before the old gentleman was up.

When this excitement was over, Beth waited to see what would happen. All day passed and part of the next before any reply came, and she was beginning to fear she had offended her unusual friend. On the afternoon of the second day, she went out to do an errand, and take poor Joanna, the sick doll, on her daily outing. As she came up the street on her way back, she saw three—yes, four heads popping in and out of the sitting room windows, and the moment they saw her, several hands waved, and several excited voices screamed...

"Here's a letter from the old gentleman! Come quickly, and read it!"

"Oh, Beth, he's sent you..." began Amy, gesturing with great energy, but she got no further, because Jo stopped her by quickly closing the window.

Beth hurried on in a state of nervous excitement. At the door her sisters grabbed her and brought her to the sitting room in a triumphant parade, all pointing and all saying at once, "Look there! Look there!" Beth did look, and turned pale with delight and surprise, because there stood a small upright piano, with a letter lying on the shiny lid, addressed like a sign to "Miss Elizabeth March."

"For me?" gasped Beth, holding onto Jo and feeling as if she might fall down, it was such an overwhelming thing.

"Yes, all for you, my precious! Isn't it wonderful of him? Don't you think he's the dearest old man in the world? Here's the key in the letter. We didn't open it, but we are desperate to know what he says," cried Jo, hugging her sister and offering the note.

"You read it! I can't, I feel so strange! Oh, it is too lovely!" and Beth hid her face in Jo's dress, completely overwhelmed by her present.

Jo opened the paper and began to laugh, because the first words she saw were...

"Miss March: 'Dear Madam—'"

"How elegant it sounds! I wish someone would write to me like that!" said Amy, who thought the old-fashioned address was very elegant.

"'I have had many pairs of slippers in my life, but I never had any that suited me so well as yours,'" continues Jo. "'Heart's-ease is my favorite flower, and these will always remind me of the kind giver. I like to pay my debts, so I know you will allow the old gentleman to send you something which once belonged to the little granddaughter he lost. With grateful thanks and best wishes, I remain, Your grateful friend and humble servant, JAMES LAURENCE.'"

"There, Beth, that's an honor to be proud of, I'm sure! Laurie told me how fond Mr. Laurence was of the child who died, and how he kept all her little things carefully. Just think, he's given you her piano. That's what comes of having big blue eyes and loving music," said Jo, trying to comfort Beth, who trembled and looked more excited than she had ever been before.

"See the pretty brackets to hold candles, and the nice green silk, gathered up, with a gold rose in the middle, and the pretty music rack and stool, all complete," added Meg, opening the instrument and showing its beauties.

"'Your humble servant, James Laurence'. Just think of his writing that to you. I'll tell the girls. They'll think it's wonderful," said Amy, very impressed by the note.

"Try it, honey. Let's hear the sound of the little piano," said Hannah, who always shared in the family's joys and sorrows.

So Beth tried it, and everyone said it was the most remarkable piano ever heard. It had clearly been newly tuned and put in perfect order, but, perfect as it was, I think the real charm lay in the happiest of all happy faces which leaned over it, as Beth lovingly touched the beautiful black and white keys and pressed the bright foot pedals.

"You'll have to go and thank him," said Jo, as a joke, because the idea of the child actually going never entered her head.

"Yes, I mean to. I think I'll go now, before I get frightened thinking about it." And, to the complete amazement of the whole family, Beth walked calmly down the garden, through the hedge, and in at the Laurences' door.

"Well, I never have seen such a strange thing! The piano has turned her head! She'd never have gone in her right mind," cried Hannah, staring after her, while the girls were left speechless by the miracle.

They would have been even more amazed if they had seen what Beth did next. If you can believe it, she went and knocked at the study door before she had time to change her mind, and when a rough voice called out, "come in!" she did go in, right up to Mr. Laurence, who looked quite surprised, and held out her hand, saying, with only a small tremor in her voice, "I came to thank you, sir, for..." But she didn't finish, because he looked so friendly that she forgot her speech and, only remembering that he had lost the little girl he loved, she put both arms around his neck and kissed him.

If the roof of the house had suddenly blown off, the old gentleman wouldn't have been more surprised. But he liked it. Oh, yes, he liked it very much! And was so touched and moved by that trusting little kiss that all his gruffness disappeared, and he simply put her on his knee, and laid his wrinkled cheek against her rosy one, feeling as if he had got his own little granddaughter back again. Beth stopped being afraid of him from that moment, and sat there talking to him as comfortably as if she had known him all her life, because love removes fear, and gratitude can overcome pride. When she went home, he walked with her to her own gate, shook hands warmly, and touched his hat as he walked back, looking very dignified and upright, like a handsome, military old gentleman, as he was.

When the girls saw that, Jo began to dance a jig to show her delight, Amy nearly fell out of the window in her surprise, and Meg exclaimed, with hands raised, "Well, I truly believe the world is coming to an end."
