

   "I do think it was the luckiest thing in the world that those children should have the measles just now," said Meg one April day, as she stood packing the travel trunk in her room, surrounded by her sisters.

"And so nice of Annie Moffat not to forget her promise. A whole two weeks of fun will be absolutely wonderful," replied Jo, looking like a windmill as she folded skirts with her long arms.

"And such lovely weather, I'm so glad of that," added Beth, tidily sorting neck ribbons and hair ribbons in her best box, lent for the special occasion.

"I wish I was going to have a wonderful time and wear all these nice things," said Amy with her mouth full of pins, as she artistically filled her sister's pin cushion.

"I wish you were all going, but since you can't, I shall keep my adventures to tell you when I come back. I'm sure it's the least I can do when you have been so kind, lending me things and helping me get ready," said Meg, looking around the room at the very simple wardrobe, which seemed nearly perfect in their eyes.

"What did Mother give you from the treasure box?" asked Amy, who had not been present at the opening of a certain cedar chest in which Mrs. March kept a few precious things from better times, as gifts for her girls when the right time came.

"A pair of silk stockings, that pretty carved fan, and a lovely blue sash. I wanted the violet silk, but there isn't time to alter it, so I must be content with my old tarlatan dress."

"It will look nice over my new muslin skirt, and the sash will set it off beautifully. I wish I hadn't broken my coral bracelet, because you might have had it," said Jo, who loved to give and share, but whose possessions were usually too worn out to be of much use.

"There is a lovely old-fashioned pearl set in the treasure chest, but Mother said real flowers were the prettiest decoration for a young girl, and Laurie promised to send me all I want," replied Meg. "Now, let me see, there's my new gray walking suit, just curl up the feather in my hat, Beth, then my poplin dress for Sunday and the small party, it looks heavy for spring, doesn't it? The violet silk would be so nice. Oh, dear!"

"Never mind, you've got the tarlatan for the big party, and you always look like an angel in white," said Amy, admiring the small collection of nice clothes which gave her such pleasure.

"It isn't low-cut, and it doesn't flow enough, but it will have to do. My blue everyday dress looks so well, altered and freshly trimmed, that I feel as if I'd got a new one. My silk jacket isn't at all fashionable, and my hat doesn't look like Sallie's. I didn't like to say anything, but I was sadly disappointed in my umbrella. I told Mother black with a white handle, but she forgot and bought a green one with a yellowish handle. It's sturdy and neat, so I ought not to complain, but I know I shall feel embarrassed with it next to Annie's silk one with a gold top," sighed Meg, looking at the little umbrella with great disapproval.

"Exchange it," advised Jo.

"I won't be so silly, or hurt Marmee's feelings, when she took so much trouble to get my things. It's a foolish idea of mine, and I'm not going to give in to it. My silk stockings and two pairs of new gloves are my comfort. You are a dear to lend me yours, Jo. I feel so rich and sort of elegant, with two new pairs, and the old ones cleaned up for everyday." And Meg took a pleased look at her glove box.

"Annie Moffat has blue and pink bows on her nightcaps. Would you put some on mine?" she asked, as Beth brought in a pile of white cotton caps, fresh from Hannah's care.

"No, I wouldn't, because the fancy caps won't match the plain dresses without any decoration on them. Poor people shouldn't try to look too grand," said Jo firmly.

"I wonder if I shall ever be happy enough to have real lace on my clothes and bows on my caps?" said Meg impatiently.

"You said the other day that you'd be perfectly happy if you could only go to Annie Moffat's," said Beth quietly.

"So I did! Well, I am happy, and I won't worry, but it does seem as if the more one gets the more one wants, doesn't it? There now, the trays are ready, and everything in except my ball dress, which I shall leave for Mother to pack," said Meg, cheering up, as she glanced from the half-filled trunk to the many times pressed and mended white tarlatan, which she called her 'ball dress' with an important air.

The next day was fine, and Meg left with style for two weeks of new experiences and pleasure. Mrs. March had agreed to the visit rather reluctantly, fearing that Margaret would come back more discontented than she went. But she begged so much, and Sallie had promised to take good care of her, and a little pleasure seemed so wonderful after a winter of hard work that the mother gave in, and the daughter went to taste her first experience of fashionable life.

The Moffats were very fashionable, and simple Meg was rather intimidated, at first, by the grandeur of the house and the elegance of its occupants. But they were kind people, in spite of the empty life they led, and soon made their guest feel comfortable. Perhaps Meg felt, without understanding why, that they were not particularly educated or intelligent people, and that all their fine things could not quite hide the ordinary nature of who they were. It was certainly pleasant to eat well, ride in a fine carriage, wear her best dress every day, and do nothing but enjoy herself. It suited her perfectly, and soon she began to copy the manners and conversation of those around her, to put on little airs and graces, use French phrases, curl her hair, tighten her dresses, and talk about fashion as well as she could. The more she saw of Annie Moffat's pretty things, the more she envied her and wished to be rich. Home now looked plain and gloomy as she thought of it, work grew harder than ever, and she felt that she was a very unfortunate and much-wronged girl, in spite of the new gloves and silk stockings.

She had not much time for feeling sorry for herself, however, because the three young girls were busily busy 'having a good time'. They shopped, walked, rode, and visited all day, went to theaters and operas or had fun at home in the evenings, because Annie had many friends and knew how to entertain them. Her older sisters were very elegant young ladies, and one was engaged, which Meg thought was extremely interesting and romantic. Mr. Moffat was a fat, jolly old gentleman, who knew her father, and Mrs. Moffat, a fat, jolly old lady, who took as great a liking to Meg as her daughter had done. Everyone pampered her, and 'Daisy', as they called her, was in a fair way to have her head turned.

When the evening for the small party came, she found that the poplin dress wouldn't do at all, because the other girls were putting on thin dresses and making themselves very elegant indeed. So out came the tarlatan, looking older, limper, and shabbier than ever beside Sallie's crisp new one. Meg saw the girls glance at it and then at each other, and her cheeks began to burn, because with all her gentleness she was very proud. No one said a word about it, but Sallie offered to fix her hair, and Annie to tie her sash, and Belle, the engaged sister, praised her white arms. But in their kindness Meg saw only pity for her poverty, and her heart felt very heavy as she stood by herself, while the others laughed, talked, and moved about like graceful butterflies. The hard, bitter feeling was getting quite bad, when the servant brought in a box of flowers. Before she could speak, Annie had the cover off, and all were exclaiming at the lovely roses, heather, and ferns within.

"It's for Belle, of course, George always sends her some, but these are absolutely beautiful," cried Annie, with a deep sniff.

"They are for Miss March, the man said. And here's a note," put in the servant, holding it to Meg.

"How fun! Who are they from? Didn't know you had an admirer," cried the girls, gathering around Meg in a state of great curiosity and excitement.

"The note is from Mother, and the flowers from Laurie," said Meg simply, yet very pleased that he had not forgotten her.

"Oh, really!" said Annie with a curious look, as Meg slipped the note into her pocket like a kind of protection against envy, vanity, and false pride, because the few loving words had done her good, and the flowers cheered her up with their beauty.

Feeling almost happy again, she kept a few ferns and roses for herself, and quickly made up the rest into pretty little bouquets for the dresses, hair, or skirts of her friends, offering them so nicely that Clara, the elder sister, told her she was 'the sweetest little thing she ever saw', and they looked quite delighted with her small kindness. Somehow the kind action ended her sadness, and when all the rest went to show themselves to Mrs. Moffat, she saw a happy, bright-eyed face in the mirror, as she placed her ferns in her flowing hair and fastened the roses in the dress that didn't seem so shabby to her now.

She enjoyed herself very much that evening, because she danced to her heart's content. Everyone was very kind, and she received three compliments. Annie made her sing, and someone said she had a remarkably fine voice. Major Lincoln asked who 'the fresh little girl with the beautiful eyes' was, and Mr. Moffat insisted on dancing with her because she 'didn't drag her feet, but had some energy in her', as he nicely expressed it. So altogether she had a very nice time, until she overheard a bit of conversation, which troubled her greatly. She was sitting just inside the conservatory, waiting for her partner to bring her some ice cream, when she heard a voice ask on the other side of the floral divider...

"How old is he?"

"Sixteen or seventeen, I should say," replied another voice.

"It would be a wonderful thing for one of those girls, wouldn't it? Sallie says they are very close now, and the old man quite adores them."

"Mrs. M. has made her plans, I dare say, and will manage things well, early as it is. The girl clearly doesn't think of it yet," said Mrs. Moffat.

"She told that little lie about her mother, as if she did know, and blushed up when the flowers came, quite prettily. Poor thing! She'd be so nice if she were only dressed in style. Do you think she'd be offended if we offered to lend her a dress for Thursday?" asked another voice.

"She's proud, but I don't believe she'd mind, because that unfashionable tarlatan is all she has got. She may tear it tonight, and that will be a good excuse for offering her a decent one."

Here Meg's partner appeared, to find her looking quite flushed and rather upset. She was proud, and her pride helped her just then, because it helped her hide her embarrassment, anger, and disgust at what she had just heard. Because, innocent and trusting as she was, she could not help understanding the gossip of her friends. She tried to forget it, but could not, and kept repeating to herself, "Mrs. M. has made her plans," "that little lie about her mother," and "unfashionable tarlatan," until she was ready to cry and rush home to tell her troubles and ask for advice. As that was impossible, she did her best to seem cheerful, and being rather upset, she succeeded so well that no one guessed what an effort she was making. She was very glad when it was all over and she was quiet in her bed, where she could think and wonder and feel upset until her head ached and her hot cheeks were cooled by a few natural tears. Those foolish, yet well-meaning words, had opened a new world to Meg, and greatly disturbed the peace of the old one in which until now she had lived as happily as a child. Her innocent friendship with Laurie was spoiled by the silly things she had heard. Her trust in her mother was slightly shaken by the worldly plans attributed to her by Mrs. Moffat, who judged others by herself, and the sensible decision to be content with the simple wardrobe that suited a poor man's daughter was weakened by the unnecessary pity of girls who thought a shabby dress was one of the greatest disasters possible.

Poor Meg had a restless night, and got up feeling tired and unhappy, half resentful toward her friends, and half ashamed of herself for not speaking out honestly and setting everything right. Everyone moved slowly that morning, and it was noon before the girls found energy enough even to pick up their needlework. Something in the manner of her friends struck Meg immediately. They treated her with more respect, she thought, took quite a warm interest in what she said, and looked at her with eyes that clearly showed curiosity. All this surprised and flattered her, though she did not understand it until Miss Belle looked up from her writing, and said, with a romantic air...

"Daisy, dear, I've sent an invitation to your friend, Mr. Laurence, for Thursday. We should like to know him, and it's only a proper courtesy to you."

Meg blushed, but a playful desire to tease the girls made her reply calmly, "You are very kind, but I'm afraid he won't come."

"Why not, dear?" asked Miss Belle.

"He's too old."

"My child, what do you mean? What is his age, I beg to know!" cried Miss Clara.

"Nearly seventy, I believe," answered Meg, counting stitches to hide the amusement in her eyes.

"You sly creature! Of course we meant the young man," exclaimed Miss Belle, laughing.

"There isn't any, Laurie is only a little boy." And Meg laughed also at the surprised look which the sisters exchanged as she described her supposed admirer.

"About your age," Nan said.

"Closer to my sister Jo's age. I am seventeen in August," returned Meg, holding her head up.

"It's very nice of him to send you flowers, isn't it?" said Annie, looking knowing about nothing.

"Yes, he often does, to all of us, because their house is full, and we are so fond of them. My mother and old Mr. Laurence are friends, you know, so it is quite natural that we children should play together," and Meg hoped they would say no more.

"It's clear Daisy isn't out in society yet," said Miss Clara to Belle with a nod.

"Quite a natural state of innocence all around," returned Miss Belle with a shrug.

"I'm going out to get some small things for my girls. Can I do anything for you, young ladies?" asked Mrs. Moffat, coming in heavily like an elephant in silk and lace.

"No, thank you, ma'am," replied Sallie. "I've got my new pink silk for Thursday and don't want a thing."

"Nor I..." began Meg, but stopped because it occurred to her that she did want several things and could not have them.

"What shall you wear?" asked Sallie.

"My old white one again, if I can mend it well enough, it got badly torn last night," said Meg, trying to speak quite casually, but feeling very uncomfortable.

"Why don't you send home for another?" said Sallie, who was not a very observant young lady.

"I haven't got any other." It cost Meg an effort to say that, but Sallie did not notice it and exclaimed in genuine surprise, "Only that? How strange..." She didn't finish her sentence, because Belle gave her a warning look and broke in, saying kindly...

"Not at all. Why would she need a lot of dresses when she isn't out in society yet? There's no need to send home, Daisy, even if you had a dozen, because I've got a lovely blue silk that I've grown out of, and you shall wear it to please me, won't you, dear?"

"You are very kind, but I don't mind my old dress if you don't, it does well enough for a simple girl like me," said Meg.

"Now do let me please myself by dressing you up in style. I love to do it, and you'd be quite a beauty with a touch here and there. I shan't let anyone see you until you are ready, and then we'll appear like Cinderella and her fairy godmother going to the ball," said Belle in her persuasive tone.

Meg couldn't refuse the offer so kindly made, because a wish to see if she would be 'quite a beauty' after being dressed up caused her to accept and forget all her earlier uncomfortable feelings toward the Moffats.

On the Thursday evening, Belle shut herself up with her maid, and between them they transformed Meg into a fine lady. They curled and arranged her hair, they smoothed her neck and arms with fragrant powder, touched her lips with lip color to make them redder, and the maid would have added 'a little rouge to her cheeks', if Meg had not objected. They dressed her in a sky-blue gown, which was so tight she could hardly breathe and so low at the neck that modest Meg blushed at herself in the mirror. A set of silver jewelry was added, bracelets, necklace, brooch, and even earrings, which were attached with a bit of pink thread that didn't show. A cluster of tea-rose buds at the neckline, and a ruffle, made Meg accept the show of her pretty white shoulders, and a pair of high-heeled silk boots satisfied her last wish. A lace handkerchief, a feathery fan, and a bouquet in a shoulder holder completed the outfit, and Miss Belle looked at her with the satisfaction of a little girl with a newly dressed doll.

"She is charming, very pretty, isn't she?" cried the maid, clapping her hands in an exaggerated delight.

"Come and show yourself," said Miss Belle, leading the way to the room where the others were waiting.

As Meg followed, with her long skirts trailing, her earrings tinkling, her curls waving, and her heart beating, she felt as if her fun had really begun at last, because the mirror had clearly told her that she was 'quite a beauty'. Her friends repeated the pleasing words with great enthusiasm, and for several minutes she stood, enjoying her borrowed elegance, while the rest chatted like excited birds.

"While I get dressed, drill her, Nan, in how to manage her skirt and those French heels, or she will trip herself up. Pin up that long curl on the left side of her head, Clara, and don't any of you disturb the lovely work of my hands," said Belle, as she hurried away, looking well pleased with her success.

"You don't look at all like yourself, but you are very nice. I'm nothing compared to you, because Belle has wonderful taste, and you look quite French, I assure you. Let your flowers hang loosely, don't be so careful of them, and be sure you don't trip," returned Sallie, trying not to feel that Meg was prettier than herself.

Keeping that warning carefully in mind, Margaret got safely downstairs and came into the drawing rooms where the Moffats and a few early guests were assembled. She very soon discovered that there is a charm about fine clothes which attracts a certain kind of people and earns their respect. Several young ladies, who had paid no attention to her before, were suddenly very friendly. Several young men, who had only stared at her at the other party, now not only stared, but asked to be introduced, and said all kinds of silly but flattering things to her, and several older ladies, who sat on the sofas, and watched the rest of the party, asked who she was with great interest. She heard Mrs. Moffat reply to one of them...

"Daisy March—father a colonel in the army—one of our good families, but financial difficulties, you know; close friends of the Laurences; sweet girl, I assure you; my Ned is quite taken with her."

"My goodness!" said the old lady, putting up her glasses for another look at Meg, who tried to look as if she had not heard and had not been rather shocked at Mrs. Moffat's untruths. The 'strange feeling' did not go away, but she imagined herself playing the new role of fine lady and so got along reasonably well, though the tight dress gave her a side ache, the train kept getting under her feet, and she was constantly afraid that her earrings would fall off and get lost or broken. She was waving her fan and laughing at the feeble jokes of a young man who tried to be witty, when she suddenly stopped laughing and looked uncomfortable, because just opposite, she saw Laurie. He was staring at her with obvious surprise, and disapproval too, she thought, because though he bowed and smiled, yet something in his honest eyes made her blush and wish she had her old dress on. To make her discomfort worse, she saw Belle nudge Annie, and both glance from her to Laurie, who, she was glad to see, looked unusually boyish and shy.

"Silly creatures, to put such thoughts into my head. I won't care about it, or let it change me a bit," thought Meg, and walked across the room to shake hands with her friend.

"I'm glad you came, I was afraid you wouldn't." she said, with her most grown-up manner.

"Jo wanted me to come, and tell her how you looked, so I did," answered Laurie, without turning his eyes upon her, though he half smiled at her formal tone.

"What shall you tell her?" asked Meg, curious to know his opinion of her, yet feeling uncomfortable with him for the first time.

"I shall say I didn't recognize you, because you look so grown-up and unlike yourself, I'm quite startled by you," he said, fiddling with his glove button.

"How silly of you! The girls dressed me up for fun, and I rather like it. Wouldn't Jo stare if she saw me?" said Meg, trying to make him say whether he thought her improved or not.

"Yes, I think she would," returned Laurie seriously.

"Don't you like me this way?" asked Meg.

"No, I don't," was the direct reply.

"Why not?" in a worried tone.

He glanced at her curled hair, bare shoulders, and extravagantly trimmed dress with an expression that made her more uncomfortable than his answer, which had not a bit of his usual politeness in it.

"I don't like too much fuss and decoration."

That was altogether too much from a boy younger than herself, and Meg walked away, saying irritably, "You are the rudest boy I ever saw."

Feeling quite upset, she went and stood at a quiet window to cool her cheeks, because the tight dress gave her an uncomfortably high color. As she stood there, Major Lincoln passed by, and a minute after she heard him saying to his mother...

"They are making a fool of that little girl. I wanted you to see her, but they have completely ruined her. She's nothing but a doll tonight."

"Oh, dear!" sighed Meg. "I wish I'd been sensible and worn my own things, then I should not have bothered other people, or felt so uncomfortable and ashamed of myself."

She leaned her forehead on the cool glass, and stood half hidden by the curtains, not noticing that her favorite waltz had begun, until someone touched her, and turning, she saw Laurie, looking sorry, as he said, with his very best bow and his hand out...

"Please forgive my rudeness, and come and dance with me."

"I'm afraid it will be too unpleasant for you," said Meg, trying to look offended and failing completely.

"Not at all, I'm desperate to do it. Come, I'll be good. I don't like your gown, but I do think you are absolutely wonderful." And he waved his hands, as if words failed to express his admiration.

Meg smiled and relented, and whispered as they stood waiting to catch the rhythm, "Be careful my skirt doesn't trip you up. It's the bane of my life and I was a fool to wear it."

"Tie it around your neck, and then it will be useful," said Laurie, looking down at the little blue boots, which he clearly approved of.

Away they went lightly and gracefully, because having practiced at home, they were well matched, and the cheerful young couple were a pleasant sight to see, as they danced merrily around and around, feeling more friendly than ever after their small disagreement.

"Laurie, I want you to do me a favor, will you?" said Meg, as he stood fanning her when she got out of breath, which happened very soon though she wouldn't say why.

"Of course!" said Laurie, eagerly.

"Please don't tell them at home about my dress tonight. They won't understand the joke, and it will worry Mother."

"Then why did you do it?" said Laurie's eyes, so clearly that Meg hastily added...

"I shall tell them myself all about it, and admit to Mother how silly I've been. But I'd rather do it myself. So you won't tell, will you?"

"I give you my word I won't, only what shall I say when they ask me?"

"Just say I looked pretty well and was having a good time."

"I'll say the first with all my heart, but how about the other? You don't look as if you were having a good time. Are you?" And Laurie looked at her with an expression which made her answer in a whisper...

"No, not just now. Don't think I'm being difficult. I only wanted a little fun, but this kind doesn't work, I find, and I'm getting tired of it."

"Here comes Ned Moffat. What does he want?" said Laurie, tightening his dark brows as if he did not consider his young host a welcome addition to the party.

"He put his name down for three dances, and I suppose he's coming for them. What a nuisance!" said Meg, acting bored, which amused Laurie greatly.

He did not speak to her again until supper time, when he saw her drinking champagne with Ned and his friend Fisher, who were behaving foolishly, as Laurie said to himself, because he felt a brotherly kind of responsibility to watch over the Marches and protect them whenever a defender was needed.

"You'll have a terrible headache tomorrow, if you drink much of that. I wouldn't, Meg, your mother doesn't like it, you know," he whispered, leaning over her chair, as Ned turned to refill her glass and Fisher bent down to pick up her fan.

"I'm not Meg tonight, I'm 'a doll' who does all kinds of crazy things. Tomorrow I shall put away my 'fuss and decoration' and be very good again," she answered with an affected little laugh.

"I wish tomorrow was here, then," muttered Laurie, walking off, unhappy at the change he saw in her.

Meg danced and flirted, chattered and giggled, as the other girls did. After supper she attempted a complex dance, and stumbled through it, nearly tripping her partner with her long skirt, and acting in a way that shocked Laurie, who watched and thought about giving her a lecture. But he got no chance to do so, because Meg kept away from him until he came to say goodnight.

"Remember!" she said, trying to smile, because the splitting headache had already begun.

"Silence forever," replied Laurie, with a dramatic gesture, as he went away.

This small exchange excited Annie's curiosity, but Meg was too tired for conversation and went to bed, feeling as if she had been to a fancy dress party and hadn't enjoyed herself as much as she expected. She was sick all the next day, and on Saturday went home, quite worn out from her two weeks of fun and feeling that she had 'sat in the lap of luxury' long enough.

"It does seem pleasant to be quiet, and not have to be on my best behavior all the time. Home is a nice place, though it isn't grand," said Meg, looking around her with a relieved expression, as she sat with her mother and Jo on the Sunday evening.

"I'm glad to hear you say so, dear, because I was afraid home would seem dull and ordinary to you after your elegant surroundings," replied her mother, who had given her many worried looks that day. Because a mother's eyes are quick to see any change in children's faces.

Meg had told her adventures cheerfully and said over and over what a wonderful time she had had, but something still seemed to weigh on her spirits, and when the younger girls were gone to bed, she sat thoughtfully staring at the fire, saying little and looking troubled. As the clock struck nine and Jo suggested bed, Meg suddenly left her chair and, taking Beth's stool, leaned her elbows on her mother's knee, saying bravely...

"Marmee, I want to confess."

"I thought so. What is it, dear?"

"Shall I go away?" asked Jo tactfully.

"Of course not. Don't I always tell you everything? I was ashamed to speak of it in front of the younger children, but I want you to know all the terrible things I did at the Moffats'."

"We are prepared," said Mrs. March, smiling but looking a little worried.

"I told you they dressed me up, but I didn't tell you that they powdered and squeezed and curled me, and made me look like a fashion picture. Laurie thought I wasn't proper. I know he did, though he didn't say so, and one man called me 'a doll'. I knew it was silly, but they flattered me and said I was a beauty, and all kinds of nonsense, so I let them make a fool of me."

"Is that all?" asked Jo, as Mrs. March looked silently at the embarrassed face of her pretty daughter, and could not find it in her heart to blame her little foolishness.

"No, I drank champagne and acted wild and tried to flirt, and was altogether terrible," said Meg, blaming herself.

"There is something more, I think." And Mrs. March gently stroked the soft cheek, which suddenly turned pink as Meg answered slowly...

"Yes. It's very silly, but I want to tell it, because I hate to have people say and think such things about us and Laurie."

Then she told the various bits of gossip she had heard at the Moffats', and as she spoke, Jo saw her mother press her lips together tightly, as if unhappy that such ideas should be put into Meg's innocent mind.

"Well, if that isn't the most ridiculous thing I ever heard," cried Jo indignantly. "Why didn't you speak up and tell them so right away?"

"I couldn't, it was so embarrassing for me. I couldn't help hearing at first, and then I was so angry and ashamed, I didn't remember that I ought to leave."

"Just wait until I see Annie Moffat, and I'll show you how to deal with such ridiculous nonsense. The idea of having 'plans' and being kind to Laurie because he's rich and may marry one of us someday! Won't he laugh when I tell him what those silly people say about us poor children?" And Jo laughed, as if on second thought the whole thing seemed quite funny.

"If you tell Laurie, I'll never forgive you! She mustn't, must she, Mother?" said Meg, looking distressed.

"No, never repeat that foolish gossip, and forget it as soon as you can," said Mrs. March seriously. "I was very unwise to let you go among people of whom I know so little, kind, I dare say, but worldly, poorly mannered, and full of these silly ideas about young people. I am more sorry than I can say for the harm this visit may have done you, Meg."

"Don't be sorry, I won't let it hurt me. I'll forget all the bad and remember only the good, because I did enjoy a great deal, and thank you very much for letting me go. I'll not be romantic or dissatisfied, Mother. I know I'm a silly little girl, and I'll stay with you until I'm ready to take care of myself. But it is nice to be praised and admired, and I can't help saying I like it," said Meg, looking half ashamed of the confession.

"That is perfectly natural, and quite harmless, if the liking does not become an obsession and lead one to do foolish or improper things. Learn to recognize and value the praise which is worth having, and to earn the admiration of good people by being modest as well as pretty, Meg."

Margaret sat thinking for a moment, while Jo stood with her hands behind her, looking both interested and a little puzzled, because it was new to see Meg blushing and talking about admiration, lovers, and such things. And Jo felt as if during that two weeks her sister had grown up a great deal, and was moving away from her into a world where she could not follow.

"Mother, do you have 'plans', as Mrs. Moffat said?" asked Meg shyly.

"Yes, my dear, I have a great many, all mothers do, but mine are quite different from Mrs. Moffat's, I suspect. I will tell you some of them, because the time has come when a word may set this romantic little head and heart of yours right, on a very serious subject. You are young, Meg, but not too young to understand me, and a mother's lips are the most fitting to speak of such things to girls like you. Jo, your turn will come in time, perhaps, so listen to my 'plans' and help me carry them out, if they are good."

Jo went and sat on one arm of the chair, looking as if she thought they were about to discuss something very solemn. Holding a hand of each, and looking at the two young faces with affectionate concern, Mrs. March said, in her serious yet cheerful way...

"I want my daughters to be beautiful, accomplished, and good. To be admired, loved, and respected. To have a happy youth, to be well and wisely married, and to lead useful, pleasant lives, with as little trouble and sorrow to test them as God sees fit to send. To be loved and chosen by a good man is the best and sweetest thing which can happen to a woman, and I sincerely hope my girls may know this beautiful experience. It is natural to think of it, Meg, right to hope and wait for it, and wise to prepare for it, so that when the happy time comes, you may feel ready for the duties and worthy of the joy. My dear girls, I am ambitious for you, but not to have you make a splash in society, marry rich men simply because they are rich, or have grand houses, which are not homes because love is absent. Money is a necessary and precious thing, and when well used, a noble thing, but I never want you to think it is the first or only prize to aim for. I'd rather see you as poor men's wives, if you were happy, beloved, and contented, than as queens on thrones, without self-respect and peace."

"Poor girls don't stand any chance, Belle says, unless they put themselves forward," sighed Meg.

"Then we'll be old maids," said Jo firmly.

"Right, Jo. Better to be happy old maids than unhappy wives, or girls without dignity, running about looking for husbands," said Mrs. March firmly. "Don't be troubled, Meg, poverty rarely discourages a sincere lover. Some of the best and most respected women I know were poor girls, but so worthy of love that they were not left to be old maids. Leave these things to time. Make this home happy, so that you may be ready for homes of your own, if they are offered you, and contented here if they are not. One thing remember, my girls. Mother is always ready to be your confidant, Father to be your friend, and both of us hope and trust that our daughters, whether married or single, will be the pride and comfort of our lives."

"We will, Marmee, we will!" cried both, with all their hearts, as she said good night to them.
