

  "Christmas won't be Christmas without any presents," complained Jo, lying on the floor.

"It's so terrible to be poor!" sighed Meg, looking down at her old dress.

"I don't think it's fair that some girls have lots of pretty things, and other girls have nothing at all," added little Amy, with an unhappy sniff.

"We have Father and Mother, and each other," said Beth happily from her corner.

The four young faces that the firelight shone on became brighter at the cheerful words, but became sad again as Jo said sadly, "We don't have Father, and we won't have him for a long time." She didn't say "maybe never," but each girl quietly thought it, thinking of Father far away, where the fighting was.

Nobody spoke for a minute. Then Meg said in a different tone, "You know the reason Mother suggested not having any presents this Christmas was because it's going to be a hard winter for everyone. She thinks we shouldn't spend money on pleasure when our men are suffering so much in the army. We can't do much, but we can make our small sacrifices, and we should do it gladly. But I'm afraid I don't feel that way," and Meg shook her head, thinking sadly about all the pretty things she wanted.

"But I don't think the little we would spend would do any good. We each have a dollar, and the army wouldn't be helped much by us giving that. I agree not to expect anything from Mother or you, but I do want to buy Undine and Sintram for myself. I've wanted it for so long," said Jo, who loved books.

"I was planning to spend mine on new music," said Beth, with a small sigh that no one heard but the hearth brush and kettle-holder.

"I'll get a nice box of Faber's drawing pencils. I really need them," said Amy firmly.

"Mother didn't say anything about our money, and she won't want us to give up everything. Let's each buy what we want and have a little fun. I'm sure we work hard enough to earn it," cried Jo, looking at the heels of her shoes in a casual way.

"I know I do—teaching those tiresome children almost all day, when I want to enjoy myself at home," began Meg, in a complaining tone again.

"You don't have half as hard a time as I do," said Jo. "How would you like to be stuck for hours with a nervous, fussy old lady who keeps you running, is never happy, and worries you until you want to jump out the window or cry?"

"It's wrong to complain, but I do think washing dishes and keeping things tidy is the worst work in the world. It makes me irritable, and my hands get so stiff that I can't practice piano well at all." And Beth looked at her rough hands with a sigh that everyone could hear.

"I don't think any of you suffer as much as I do," cried Amy, "because you don't have to go to school with rude girls who bother you if you don't know your lessons, laugh at your dresses, and insult your father for not being rich, and insult you when your nose isn't perfect."

"If you mean insult, I'd say so, and not talk about labels, as if Papa was a pickle bottle," advised Jo, laughing.

"I know what I mean, and you don't need to be sarcastic about it. It's right to use good words and improve your vocabulary," returned Amy, with dignity.

"Don't argue with each other, children. Don't you wish we had the money Papa lost when we were little, Jo? Oh my! How happy and good we'd be, if we had no worries!" said Meg, who could remember better times.

"You said the other day that you thought we were much happier than the King children, because they were fighting and complaining all the time, even with all their money."

"Yes I did, Beth. Well, I think we are. Because even though we have to work, we have fun together, and we're quite a cheerful group, as Jo would say."

"Jo uses such slang words!" said Amy, giving a disapproving look at the long figure lying on the floor.

Jo immediately sat up, put her hands in her pockets, and started to whistle.

"Don't, Jo. It's so boyish!"

"That's why I do it."

"I hate rude, unladylike girls!"

"I hate fake, overly polite girls!"

"Birds in their little nests agree," sang Beth, the peacemaker, with such a funny face that both sharp voices softened into laughter, and the arguing stopped for that time.

"Really, girls, you are both to blame," said Meg, starting to lecture in her older-sister way. "You are old enough to stop boyish behavior and act better, Josephine. It didn't matter so much when you were a little girl, but now you are so tall, and you put your hair up, you should remember that you are a young lady."

"I'm not! And if putting up my hair makes me one, I'll wear it in two braids until I'm twenty," cried Jo, pulling off her hair net and shaking down her thick brown hair. "I hate thinking that I have to grow up and be Miss March, and wear long dresses, and look as proper as a China Aster! It's bad enough to be a girl anyway, when I like boys' games and work and ways! I can't get over my disappointment in not being a boy. And it's worse than ever now, because I want to go and fight with Papa. And I can only stay home and knit, like a boring old woman!"

And Jo shook the blue army sock until the needles rattled like castanets, and her ball of yarn bounced across the room.

"Poor Jo! It's too bad, but it can't be helped. So you must try to be happy with making your name boyish, and being like a brother to us girls," said Beth, gently stroking the rough head with a hand that all the dish washing and dusting in the world could not make unkind in its touch.

"As for you, Amy," continued Meg, "you are much too particular and proper. Your manner is funny now, but you'll grow up to be an affected little fool if you don't be careful. I like your nice manners and refined way of speaking when you don't try too hard to be elegant. But your strange words are as bad as Jo's slang."

"If Jo is a tomboy and Amy a goose, what am I, please?" asked Beth, ready to share the lecture.

"You're a dear, and nothing else," answered Meg warmly, and no one disagreed, for the 'Mouse' was the family's favorite.

Since young readers like to know how people look, we will take this moment to give them a small description of the four sisters, who sat knitting in the evening light, while the December snow fell quietly outside, and the fire crackled cheerfully inside. It was a comfortable room, though the carpet was old and the furniture very plain, for a good picture or two hung on the walls, books filled the shelves, chrysanthemums and Christmas roses bloomed in the windows, and a pleasant feeling of home and peace filled it.

Margaret, the oldest of the four, was sixteen, and very pretty, being round and fair, with large eyes, plenty of soft brown hair, a sweet mouth, and white hands, which she was rather proud of. Fifteen-year-old Jo was very tall, thin, and tanned, and reminded people of a young horse, for she never seemed to know what to do with her long arms and legs, which were always in the way. She had a determined mouth, a funny nose, and sharp gray eyes that seemed to see everything, and were sometimes fierce, sometimes funny, sometimes thoughtful. Her long, thick hair was her one beauty, but it was usually tied up in a net to keep it out of her way. Jo had round shoulders, big hands and feet, messy-looking clothes, and the uncomfortable look of a girl who was quickly growing into a woman and didn't like it. Elizabeth, or Beth, as everyone called her, was a rosy, smooth-haired, bright-eyed girl of thirteen, with a shy manner, a quiet voice, and a calm expression that was rarely disturbed. Her father called her 'Little Miss Tranquility', and the name suited her perfectly, for she seemed to live in a happy world of her own, only coming out to meet the few people she trusted and loved. Amy, though the youngest, was a very important person, at least in her own opinion. A real snow maiden, with blue eyes and yellow hair curling on her shoulders, pale and slender, and always carrying herself like a young lady who was aware of her manners. What the characters of the four sisters were we will leave to be found out.

The clock struck six and, having swept up the fireplace, Beth put a pair of slippers down to warm. Somehow the sight of the old shoes had a good effect on the girls, because Mother was coming, and everyone cheered up to welcome her. Meg stopped lecturing and lit the lamp, Amy got up from the easy chair without being asked, and Jo forgot how tired she was as she sat up to hold the slippers closer to the fire.

"They are quite worn out. Marmee must have a new pair."

"I thought I'd buy her some with my dollar," said Beth.

"No, I will!" cried Amy.

"I'm the oldest," began Meg, but Jo interrupted with a firm, "I'm the man of the family now that Papa is away, and I will get the slippers, because he told me to take special care of Mother while he was gone."

"I'll tell you what we'll do," said Beth, "let's each get her something for Christmas, and not get anything for ourselves."

"That's so like you, dear! What will we get?" exclaimed Jo.

Everyone thought quietly for a minute, then Meg announced, as if the idea came from looking at her own pretty hands, "I will give her a nice pair of gloves."

"Army shoes, the best available," cried Jo.

"Some handkerchiefs, all hemmed," said Beth.

"I'll get a little bottle of cologne. She likes it, and it won't cost much, so I'll have some money left to buy my pencils," added Amy.

"How will we give the things?" asked Meg.

"Put them on the table, and bring her in and watch her open the bundles. Don't you remember how we used to do it on our birthdays?" answered Jo.

"I used to be so frightened when it was my turn to sit in the chair with the crown on, and watch you all march around to give the presents with a kiss. I liked the things and the kisses, but it was terrible to have you all sitting there watching me while I opened the bundles," said Beth, who was toasting her face and the bread for tea at the same time.

"Let Marmee think we are getting things for ourselves, and then surprise her. We must go shopping tomorrow afternoon, Meg. There is so much to do about the play for Christmas night," said Jo, walking up and down with her hands behind her back and her head up.

"I don't plan to act anymore after this time. I'm getting too old for such things," said Meg, who was as much a child as ever when it came to dressing up and playing pretend.

"You won't stop, I know, as long as you can walk around in a white dress with your hair down and wear gold-paper jewelry. You are the best actress we have, and everything will fall apart if you leave the stage," said Jo. "We should rehearse tonight. Come here, Amy, and do the fainting scene, because you are as stiff as a stick in that part."

"I can't help it. I've never seen anyone faint, and I don't want to make myself black and blue by falling flat like you do. If I can go down easily, I'll drop. If I can't, I'll fall into a chair and be graceful. I don't care if Hugo comes at me with a pistol," returned Amy, who was not a natural actress but was chosen because she was small enough to be carried out screaming by the villain.

"Do it this way. Clasp your hands like this, and stagger across the room, crying frantically, 'Roderigo! Save me! Save me!'" and away went Jo, with a dramatic scream which was truly thrilling.

Amy followed, but she pushed her hands out stiffly in front of her and moved along as if she were a machine, and her "Ow!" suggested pins being stuck into her rather than fear and pain. Jo gave a despairing groan, and Meg laughed out loud, while Beth let her bread burn as she watched the fun with interest. "It's no use! Do the best you can when the time comes, and if the audience laughs, don't blame me. Come on, Meg."

Then things went smoothly, for Don Pedro defied the world in a speech of two pages without a single pause. Hagar, the witch, chanted a terrifying spell over her pot of simmering toads, with a great effect. Roderigo broke his chains bravely, and Hugo died in agony of regret and poison, with a wild, "Ha! Ha!"

"It's the best we've done yet," said Meg, as the dead villain sat up and rubbed his elbows.

"I don't know how you can write and act such wonderful things, Jo. You're like Shakespeare!" exclaimed Beth, who truly believed that her sisters were gifted with amazing talent in everything.

"Not quite," replied Jo modestly. "I do think The Witches Curse, an Operatic Tragedy is rather a nice piece, but I'd like to try Macbeth, if we only had a trapdoor for Banquo. I always wanted to do the killing part. 'Is that a dagger that I see before me?'" muttered Jo, rolling her eyes and reaching into the air, as she had seen a famous actor do.

"No, it's the toasting fork, with Mother's shoe on it instead of the bread. Beth has gone crazy about acting!" cried Meg, and the rehearsal ended in everyone laughing.

"Glad to find you so cheerful, my girls," said a happy voice at the door, and the actors and audience turned to welcome a tall, motherly lady with a 'can I help you' look about her that was truly wonderful. She was not elegantly dressed, but she was a noble-looking woman, and the girls thought the gray coat and unfashionable hat covered the most wonderful mother in the world.

"Well, darlings, how have you got on today? There was so much to do, getting the boxes ready to go tomorrow, that I didn't come home for dinner. Has anyone called, Beth? How is your cold, Meg? Jo, you look very tired. Come and kiss me, baby."

While asking these motherly questions, Mrs. March took off her wet things, put on her warm slippers, and sat down in the easy chair, drawing Amy onto her lap, ready to enjoy the happiest hour of her busy day. The girls moved quickly, trying to make things comfortable, each in her own way. Meg arranged the tea table, Jo brought wood and set chairs, dropping, knocking over, and making noise with everything she touched. Beth moved quietly and busily between the sitting room and kitchen, while Amy gave directions to everyone, as she sat with her hands folded.

As they gathered around the table, Mrs. March said, with a very happy face, "I have a treat for you after supper."

A quick, bright smile went around like a ray of sunshine. Beth clapped her hands, not caring about the biscuit she held, and Jo threw up her napkin, crying, "A letter! A letter! Three cheers for Father!"

"Yes, a nice long letter. He is well, and thinks he will get through the cold season better than we feared. He sends all kinds of loving wishes for Christmas, and a special message to you girls," said Mrs. March, touching her pocket as if she had a treasure there.

"Hurry and finish! Don't stop to hold up your little finger and be slow over your plate, Amy," cried Jo, choking on her tea and dropping her bread, butter side down, on the carpet in her hurry to get to the treat.

Beth ate no more, but quietly went to sit in her corner and think excitedly about what was coming, until the others were ready.

"I think it was so wonderful of Father to go as chaplain when he was too old to be called up, and not strong enough for a soldier," said Meg warmly.

"Don't I wish I could go as a drummer, or a nurse, so I could be near him and help him," exclaimed Jo, with a groan.

"It must be very uncomfortable to sleep in a tent, and eat all sorts of bad-tasting things, and drink out of a tin cup," sighed Amy.

"When will he come home, Marmee?" asked Beth, with a small tremor in her voice.

"Not for many months, dear, unless he is sick. He will stay and do his work faithfully as long as he can, and we won't ask for him back one minute sooner than he can be spared. Now come and hear the letter."

They all came to the fire, Mother in the big chair with Beth at her feet, Meg and Amy sitting on either arm of the chair, and Jo leaning on the back, where no one would see any sign of emotion if the letter turned out to be touching. Very few letters were written in those hard times that were not touching, especially those which fathers sent home. In this one, little was said of the hardships endured, the dangers faced, or the homesickness fought. It was a cheerful, hopeful letter, full of lively descriptions of camp life, marches, and military news, and only at the end did the writer's heart overflow with fatherly love and longing for the little girls at home.

"Give them all of my dear love and a kiss. Tell them I think of them by day, pray for them by night, and find my greatest comfort in their affection at all times. A year seems very long to wait before I see them, but remind them that while we wait we may all work, so that these hard days need not be wasted. I know they will remember all I said to them, that they will be loving children to you, will do their duty faithfully, fight their inner struggles bravely, and improve themselves so beautifully that when I come back to them I may be fonder and prouder than ever of my little women." Everyone sniffled when they came to that part. Jo wasn't ashamed of the big tear that dropped off the end of her nose, and Amy didn't mind her curls getting messy as she hid her face on her mother's shoulder and sobbed out, "I am a selfish girl! But I'll truly try to be better, so he won't be disappointed in me!"

"We all will," cried Meg. "I think too much about my appearance and hate to work, but I won't anymore, if I can help it."

"I'll try to be what he loves to call me, 'a little woman', and not be rough and wild, but do my duty here instead of wanting to be somewhere else," said Jo, thinking that keeping her temper at home was a much harder task than facing an enemy in the South.

Beth said nothing, but wiped away her tears with the blue army sock and began to knit with all her energy, wasting no time in doing the duty that was closest to her, while she decided quietly in her heart to be everything that Father hoped to find her when the year brought round the happy day he came home.

Mrs. March broke the silence that followed Jo's words by saying in her cheerful voice, "Do you remember how you used to play Pilgrim's Progress when you were little? Nothing made you happier than to have me tie my fabric bags on your backs as burdens, give you hats and sticks and rolls of paper, and let you travel through the house from the cellar, which was the City of Destruction, up, up, to the rooftop, where you had all the lovely things you could collect to make a Heavenly City."

"What fun it was, especially going past the lions, fighting Apollyon, and passing through the valley where the monsters were," said Jo.

"I liked the place where the bundles fell off and rolled downstairs," said Meg.

"I don't remember much about it, except that I was afraid of the cellar and the dark hallway, and always liked the cake and milk we had at the top. If I wasn't too old for such things, I'd rather like to play it again," said Amy, who had started to talk about giving up childish things at the mature age of twelve.

"We are never too old for this, my dear, because it is a game we are playing all the time in one way or another. Our burdens are here, our road is in front of us, and the desire for goodness and happiness is the guide that leads us through many troubles and mistakes to the peace which is a true Heavenly City. Now, my little pilgrims, suppose you begin again, not in play, but seriously, and see how far you can get before Father comes home."

"Really, Mother? Where are our bundles?" asked Amy, who was a very practical young lady.

"Each of you said what your burden was just now, except Beth. I rather think she hasn't got any," said her mother.

"Yes, I have. Mine is dishes and dusting, and being jealous of girls with nice pianos, and being afraid of people."

Beth's burden was such a funny one that everyone wanted to laugh, but nobody did, because it would have hurt her feelings very much.

"Let us do it," said Meg thoughtfully. "It is only another name for trying to be good, and the story may help us, because even though we do want to be good, it's hard work and we forget, and don't do our best."

"We were in the Swamp of Despair tonight, and Mother came and pulled us out like Help did in the book. We should have our list of directions, like Christian. What shall we do about that?" asked Jo, delighted with the idea that added a little romance to the very ordinary task of doing her duty.

"Look under your pillows on Christmas morning, and you will find your guidebook," replied Mrs. March.

They talked over the new plan while old Hannah cleared the table, then out came the four little sewing baskets, and the needles moved quickly as the girls made sheets for Aunt March. It was boring sewing, but tonight no one complained. They used Jo's plan of dividing the long seams into four parts, and calling them Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, and in that way got on very well, especially when they talked about the different places as they sewed their way through them.

At nine they stopped work, and sang, as usual, before they went to bed. No one but Beth could get much music out of the old piano, but she had a way of softly touching the yellow keys and making a pleasant accompaniment to the simple songs they sang. Meg had a voice like a flute, and she and her mother led the little group. Amy sang like a cricket, and Jo wandered through the tunes in her own way, always coming out at the wrong place with a croak or a strange note that spoiled the most beautiful tune. They had always done this from the time they could lisp...

Crinkle, crinkle, 'ittle 'tar,

and it had become a family custom, because the mother was a natural singer. The first sound in the morning was her voice as she went about the house singing like a bird, and the last sound at night was the same cheerful sound, because the girls never grew too old for that familiar lullaby.
