

   "What in the world are you going to do now, Jo?" asked Meg one snowy afternoon, as her sister came walking through the hallway in rubber boots, old coat, and hood, with a broom in one hand and a shovel in the other.

"Going out for exercise," answered Jo with a mischievous smile in her eyes.

"I would think two long walks this morning would have been enough! It's cold and dull outside, and I advise you to stay warm and dry by the fire, as I do," said Meg with a shiver.

"Never take advice! Can't keep still all day, and not being a cat, I don't like to sit by the fire. I like adventures, and I'm going to find some."

Meg went back to warm her feet and read Ivanhoe, and Jo began to dig paths with great energy. The snow was light, and with her broom she soon swept a path all around the garden for Beth to walk in when the sun came out and the sick dolls needed fresh air. Now, the garden separated the Marches' house from that of Mr. Laurence. Both stood in an area on the edge of the city, which was still countryside-like, with trees and lawns, large gardens, and quiet streets. A low hedge separated the two properties. On one side was an old, brown house, looking rather bare and plain, without the climbing plants that in summer covered its walls and the flowers, which then surrounded it. On the other side was an impressive stone house, clearly showing every kind of comfort and luxury, from the big carriage house and well-kept grounds to the greenhouse and the glimpses of beautiful things one caught between the rich curtains.

Yet it seemed a lonely, empty sort of house, because no children played on the lawn, no motherly face ever smiled at the windows, and few people went in and out, except the old gentleman and his grandson.

To Jo's active imagination, this fine house seemed a kind of magical palace, full of wonderful things which no one enjoyed. She had long wanted to see these hidden wonders, and to know the Laurence boy, who looked as if he would like to be known, if only he knew how to begin. Since the party, she had been even more eager, and had planned many ways of becoming friends with him, but he had not been seen lately, and Jo began to think he had gone away, when she one day noticed a brown face at an upper window, looking longingly down into their garden, where Beth and Amy were throwing snowballs at each other.

"That boy is suffering from loneliness and boredom," she said to herself. "His grandfather doesn't know what's good for him, and keeps him shut up all alone. He needs a group of cheerful boys to play with, or someone young and lively. I have a good mind to go over and tell the old gentleman so!"

The idea amused Jo, who liked to do brave things and was always shocking Meg with her unusual actions. The plan of 'going over' was not forgotten. And when the snowy afternoon came, Jo decided to try what could be done. She saw Mr. Laurence drive away, and then went out to dig her way down to the hedge, where she stopped and looked around. All quiet, curtains down at the lower windows, servants out of sight, and nothing human visible but a curly dark head leaning on a thin hand at the upper window.

"There he is," thought Jo, "Poor boy! All alone and sick on this gloomy day. It's a shame! I'll throw a snowball up and make him look out, and then say a kind word to him."

Up went a handful of soft snow, and the head turned immediately, showing a face which lost its bored look at once, as the big eyes brightened and the mouth began to smile. Jo nodded and laughed, and waved her broom as she called out...

"How do you do? Are you sick?"

Laurie opened the window, and croaked out as hoarsely as a crow...

"Better, thank you. I've had a bad cold, and been shut up a week."

"I'm sorry. What do you do to entertain yourself?"

"Nothing. It's as dull as anything up here."

"Don't you read?"

"Not much. They won't let me."

"Can't somebody read to you?"

"Grandpa does sometimes, but my books don't interest him, and I hate to ask Brooke all the time."

"Have someone come and visit you then."

"There isn't anyone I'd like to see. Boys make such a noise, and my head hurts."

"Isn't there some nice girl who would read and keep you company? Girls are quiet and like to play nurse."

"Don't know any."

"You know us," began Jo, then laughed and stopped.

"So I do! Will you come, please?" cried Laurie.

"I'm not quiet and perfect, but I'll come, if Mother will let me. I'll go ask her. Close the window, like a good boy, and wait until I come."

With that, Jo picked up her broom and went into the house, wondering what everyone would say to her idea. Laurie was excited at the thought of having company, and moved quickly to get ready, because as Mrs. March said, he was 'a little gentleman', and honored the coming guest by brushing his curly hair, putting on a fresh shirt, and trying to tidy up the room, which despite half a dozen servants, was anything but neat. Soon there came a loud ring, then a confident voice, asking for 'Mr. Laurie', and a surprised-looking servant came running up to announce a young lady.

"All right, show her up, it's Miss Jo," said Laurie, going to the door of his small sitting room to meet Jo, who appeared, looking cheerful and quite comfortable, with a covered dish in one hand and Beth's three kittens in the other.

"Here I am, with everything I brought," she said cheerfully. "Mother sent her love, and was glad if I could do anything for you. Meg wanted me to bring some of her blanc mange, she makes it very nicely, and Beth thought her cats would be comforting. I knew you'd laugh at them, but I couldn't refuse, she was so eager to do something."

It happened that Beth's funny loan was exactly the right thing, because in laughing over the kittens, Laurie forgot his shyness, and became sociable at once.

"That looks too pretty to eat," he said, smiling with pleasure, as Jo uncovered the dish, and showed the blanc mange, surrounded by a circle of green leaves, and the red flowers of Amy's pet geranium.

"It's nothing special, only they all felt kindly and wanted to show it. Tell someone to put it away for your tea. It's so simple you can eat it, and being soft, it will go down without hurting your sore throat. What a cozy room this is!"

"It could be if it was kept tidy, but the servants are lazy, and I don't know how to make them do better. It bothers me though."

"I'll put it right in two minutes, because it only needs to have the fireplace swept, so—and the things straightened on the mantelpiece, so—and the books put here, and the bottles there, and your sofa turned from the light, and the pillows fluffed a bit. There now, you're comfortable."

And so he was, because as she laughed and talked, Jo had quickly put things in place and given quite a different feeling to the room. Laurie watched her quietly with respect, and when she pointed him to his sofa, he sat down with a sigh of satisfaction, saying gratefully...

"How kind you are! Yes, that's what it needed. Now please take the big chair and let me do something to entertain my company."

"No, I came to entertain you. Shall I read aloud?" and Jo looked affectionately toward some inviting books nearby.

"Thank you! I've read all those, and if you don't mind, I'd rather talk," answered Laurie.

"Not at all. I'll talk all day if you'll only get me started. Beth says I never know when to stop."

"Is Beth the rosy one, who stays at home a good deal and sometimes goes out with a little basket?" asked Laurie with interest.

"Yes, that's Beth. She's my special girl, and a truly good one she is, too."

"The pretty one is Meg, and the curly-haired one is Amy, I believe?"

"How did you find that out?"

Laurie turned red, but answered honestly, "Well, you see I often hear you calling to one another, and when I'm alone up here, I can't help looking over at your house, you always seem to be having such good times. I'm sorry for being so rude, but sometimes you forget to pull down the curtain at the window where the flowers are. And when the lamps are lit, it's like looking at a picture to see the fire, and you all around the table with your mother. Her face is right opposite, and it looks so sweet behind the flowers, I can't help watching it. I haven't got any mother, you know." And Laurie poked the fire to hide a small trembling of his lips that he could not control.

The lonely, hungry look in his eyes went straight to Jo's warm heart. She had been so simply raised that there was nothing complicated in her thinking, and at fifteen she was as innocent and open as any child. Laurie was sick and lonely, and feeling how rich she was in home and happiness, she gladly tried to share it with him. Her face was very friendly and her sharp voice unusually gentle as she said...

"We'll never pull down that curtain anymore, and I give you permission to look as much as you like. I just wish, though, instead of peeking, you'd come over and see us. Mother is so wonderful, she'd do you a lot of good, and Beth would sing to you if I asked her, and Amy would dance. Meg and I would make you laugh over our funny costumes, and we'd have great times. Would your grandpa let you?"

"I think he would, if your mother asked him. He's very kind, though he doesn't look so, and he lets me do what I like, mostly, only he's afraid I might bother strangers," began Laurie, brightening more and more.

"We are not strangers, we are neighbors, and you don't need to think you'd be a bother. We want to know you, and I've been trying to do it for a long time. We haven't been here very long, you know, but we have gotten to know all our neighbors except you."

"You see, Grandpa lives among his books, and doesn't pay much attention to what happens outside. Mr. Brooke, my tutor, doesn't stay here, you know, and I have no one to go about with me, so I just stay at home and get on as I can."

"That's too bad. You should make an effort and go visiting everywhere you are invited, then you'll have plenty of friends, and pleasant places to go to. Never mind being shy. It won't last long if you keep going out."

Laurie turned red again, but wasn't hurt at being accused of shyness, because there was so much goodwill in Jo that it was impossible not to take her direct comments as kindly as they were meant.

"Do you like your school?" asked the boy, changing the subject, after a little pause, during which he stared at the fire and Jo looked around her, quite pleased.

"Don't go to school, I'm a working person—girl, I mean. I go to help my great-aunt, and quite a dear, difficult old soul she is, too," answered Jo.

Laurie opened his mouth to ask another question, but remembering just in time that it wasn't polite to ask too many questions about people's affairs, he closed it again, and looked uncomfortable.

Jo liked his good manners, and didn't mind talking about Aunt March, so she gave him a lively description of the fussy old lady, her fat poodle, the parrot that talked Spanish, and the library where she loved to read.

Laurie enjoyed that very much, and when she told about the very proper old gentleman who came once to court Aunt March, and in the middle of a fine speech, how the parrot had pulled his wig off to his great embarrassment, the boy leaned back and laughed until the tears ran down his cheeks, and a servant looked in to see what was the matter.

"Oh! That does me so much good. Tell more, please," he said, taking his face out of the sofa cushion, red and shining with laughter.

Very pleased with her success, Jo did 'tell more', all about their plays and plans, their hopes and fears for Father, and the most interesting events of the little world in which the sisters lived. Then they got to talking about books, and to Jo's delight, she found that Laurie loved them as much as she did, and had read even more than she had herself.

"If you like them so much, come down and see ours. Grandfather is out, so you needn't be afraid," said Laurie, getting up.

"I'm not afraid of anything," returned Jo, with a toss of her head.

"I don't believe you are!" exclaimed the boy, looking at her with great admiration, though he privately thought she would have good reason to be a little afraid of the old gentleman, if she met him in some of his moods.

The whole house felt warm and welcoming, so Laurie led the way from room to room, letting Jo stop to look at whatever caught her interest. And so, at last they came to the library, where she clapped her hands and jumped about, as she always did when especially delighted. It was lined with books, and there were pictures and statues, and fascinating little cabinets full of coins and curiosities, and comfortable chairs, and unusual tables, and bronzes, and best of all, a great open fireplace with decorative tiles all around it.

"What richness!" sighed Jo, sinking into the depth of a velvet chair and looking around her with an expression of great satisfaction. "Theodore Laurence, you ought to be the happiest boy in the world," she added firmly.

"A person can't live on books," said Laurie, shaking his head as he sat on a table opposite.

Before he could say more, a bell rang, and Jo jumped up, exclaiming with alarm, "Goodness! It's your grandfather!"

"Well, what if it is? You are not afraid of anything, you know," returned the boy, looking mischievous.

"I think I am a little bit afraid of him, but I don't know why I should be. Marmee said I might come, and I don't think you're any worse for it," said Jo, calming herself, though she kept her eyes on the door.

"I'm a great deal better for it, and am very grateful. I'm only afraid you are very tired of talking to me. It was so pleasant, I couldn't bear to stop," said Laurie gratefully.

"The doctor to see you, sir," and the servant called as she spoke.

"Would you mind if I left you for a minute? I suppose I must see him," said Laurie.

"Don't mind me. I'm happy as can be here," answered Jo.

Laurie went away, and his guest entertained herself in her own way. She was standing before a fine portrait of the old gentleman when the door opened again, and without turning, she said firmly, "I'm sure now that I shouldn't be afraid of him, because he's got kind eyes, though his mouth is tight, and he looks as if he had a tremendous will of his own. He isn't as handsome as my grandfather, but I like him."

"Thank you, ma'am," said a gruff voice behind her, and there, to her great embarrassment, stood old Mr. Laurence.

Poor Jo blushed until she couldn't blush any redder, and her heart began to beat uncomfortably fast as she thought about what she had said. For a moment a strong desire to run away took hold of her, but that was cowardly, and the girls would laugh at her, so she decided to stay and get out of the awkward situation as best she could. A second look showed her that the living eyes, under the bushy eyebrows, were kinder even than the painted ones, and there was a sly twinkle in them, which reduced her fear a good deal. The rough voice was rougher than ever, as the old gentleman said abruptly, after the awkward silence, "So you're not afraid of me, hey?"

"Not much, sir."

"And you don't think me as handsome as your grandfather?"

"Not quite, sir."

"And I've got a tremendous will, have I?"

"I only said I thought so."

"But you like me in spite of it?"

"Yes, I do, sir."

That answer pleased the old gentleman. He gave a short laugh, shook hands with her, and, putting his finger under her chin, turned up her face, examined it seriously, and let it go, saying with a nod, "You've got your grandfather's spirit, if you haven't his face. He was a fine man, my dear, but what is better, he was a brave and an honest one, and I was proud to be his friend."

"Thank you, sir," And Jo felt quite comfortable after that, because it suited her perfectly.

"What have you been doing to this boy of mine, hey?" was the next question, asked sharply.

"Only trying to be a good neighbor, sir." And Jo told how her visit came about.

"You think he needs cheering up a bit, do you?"

"Yes, sir, he seems a little lonely, and young company would do him good perhaps. We are only girls, but we should be glad to help if we could, because we haven't forgotten the wonderful Christmas present you sent us," said Jo eagerly.

"Nonsense! That was the boy's idea. How is the poor woman?"

"Doing well, sir." And off went Jo, talking very fast, as she told all about the Hummels, in whom her mother had interested richer friends than they were.

"Just her father's way of helping people. I shall come and see your mother one fine day. Tell her so. There's the tea bell, we have it early on the boy's account. Come down and continue being a good neighbor."

"If you'd like to have me, sir."

"Shouldn't ask you, if I didn't." And Mr. Laurence offered her his arm in an old-fashioned courteous way.

"What would Meg say to this?" thought Jo, as she was led away, while her eyes danced with fun as she imagined herself telling the story at home.

"Hey! Why, what on earth has come over the boy?" said the old gentleman, as Laurie came running downstairs and stopped suddenly with a look of surprise at the amazing sight of Jo walking arm in arm with his fearsome grandfather.

"I didn't know you'd come, sir," he began, as Jo gave him a triumphant little glance.

"That's obvious, by the way you run downstairs. Come to your tea, young man, and behave like a gentleman." And having pulled the boy's hair as a sign of affection, Mr. Laurence walked on, while Laurie made a series of funny faces behind their backs, which almost caused Jo to burst out laughing.

The old gentleman didn't say much as he drank his four cups of tea, but he watched the young people, who soon chatted away like old friends, and the change in his grandson didn't escape him. There was color, brightness, and life in the boy's face now, energy in his manner, and genuine happiness in his laugh.

"She's right, the boy is lonely. I'll see what these little girls can do for him," thought Mr. Laurence, as he looked and listened. He liked Jo, because her direct, honest ways suited him, and she seemed to understand the boy almost as well as if she had been one herself.

If the Laurences had been what Jo called 'stiff and boring', she would not have gotten on at all, because such people always made her shy and awkward. But finding them relaxed and easy, she was the same herself, and made a good impression. When they got up to leave she suggested going, but Laurie said he had something more to show her, and took her to the greenhouse, which had been lit up for her benefit. It seemed quite magical to Jo, as she went up and down the paths, enjoying the flowers on either side, the soft light, the damp sweet air, and the wonderful climbing plants and trees that surrounded her, while her new friend cut the finest flowers until his hands were full. Then he tied them up, saying, with the happy look Jo liked to see, "Please give these to your mother, and tell her I like the medicine she sent me very much."

They found Mr. Laurence standing before the fire in the large drawing room, but Jo's attention was completely absorbed by a grand piano, which stood open.

"Do you play?" she asked, turning to Laurie with a respectful expression.

"Sometimes," he answered modestly.

"Please do now. I want to hear it, so I can tell Beth."

"Won't you first?"

"Don't know how. Too slow to learn, but I love music so much."

So Laurie played and Jo listened, with her nose buried happily in flowers. Her respect and admiration for the 'Laurence boy' grew very much, because he played remarkably well and didn't show off. She wished Beth could hear him, but she didn't say so, only praised him until he was quite embarrassed, and his grandfather came to help him.

"That will do, that will do, young lady. Too much praise is not good for him. His music isn't bad, but I hope he will do as well in more important things. Going? well, I'm very grateful to you, and I hope you'll come again. My regards to your mother. Good night, Doctor Jo."

He shook hands kindly, but looked as if something didn't please him. When they got into the hallway, Jo asked Laurie if she had said something wrong. He shook his head.

"No, it was me. He doesn't like to hear me play."

"Why not?"

"I'll tell you someday. John is going home with you, since I can't."

"No need for that. I am not a delicate young lady, and it's only a short walk. Take care of yourself, won't you?"

"Yes, but you will come again, I hope?"

"If you promise to come and see us after you are well."

"I will."

"Good night, Laurie!"

"Good night, Jo, good night!"

When all the afternoon's adventures had been told, the family felt like going to visit all together, because each had found something very attractive in the big house on the other side of the hedge. Mrs. March wanted to talk about her father with the old man who had not forgotten him, Meg longed to walk in the greenhouse, Beth wanted the grand piano, and Amy was eager to see the fine pictures and statues.

"Mother, why didn't Mr. Laurence like to have Laurie play?" asked Jo, who was naturally curious.

"I'm not sure, but I think it was because his son, Laurie's father, married an Italian lady, a musician, which upset the old man, who is very proud. The lady was good and lovely and talented, but he did not like her, and never saw his son after he married. They both died when Laurie was a little child, and then his grandfather brought him home. I believe the boy, who was born in Italy, is not very strong, and the old man is afraid of losing him, which makes him so protective. Laurie naturally loves music, because he is like his mother, and I suppose his grandfather fears that he may want to become a musician. In any case, his talent reminds him of the woman he did not like, and so he looks unhappy, as Jo said."

"How romantic!" exclaimed Meg.

"How silly!" said Jo. "Let him be a musician if he wants, and not make his life miserable by sending him to college when he hates to go."

"That's why he has such handsome dark eyes and nice manners, I suppose. Italian people are always pleasant," said Meg, who was a little romantic.

"What do you know about his eyes and his manners? You never really spoke to him," cried Jo, who was not romantic.

"I saw him at the party, and what you tell shows that he knows how to behave. That was a nice little comment about the medicine Mother sent him."

"He meant the blanc mange, I suppose."

"How silly you are, child! He meant you, of course."

"Did he?" And Jo opened her eyes as if it had never occurred to her before.

"I never saw such a girl! You don't recognize a compliment when you receive one," said Meg, with the air of a young lady who knew all about such things.

"I think they are complete nonsense, and I'll thank you not to be silly and ruin my fun. Laurie's a nice boy and I like him, and I won't have any romantic talk about compliments and such rubbish. We'll all be kind to him because he hasn't got any mother, and he may come over and see us, mayn't he, Marmee?"

"Yes, Jo, your little friend is very welcome, and I hope Meg will remember that children should be children as long as they can."

"I don't call myself a child, and I'm not yet in my teens," said Amy. "What do you say, Beth?"

"I was thinking about our 'Pilgrim's Progress'," answered Beth, who had not heard a word. "How we got out of the Swamp and through the Gate by deciding to be good, and up the steep hill by trying, and that maybe the house over there, full of wonderful things, is going to be our Palace Beautiful."

"We still have to get past the lions first," said Jo, as if she rather liked the idea of that challenge.
