

   "Oh, dear, how hard it is to pick up our burdens and go on," sighed Meg the morning after the party, because now the holidays were over, and the week of fun had made it harder than ever to go back to the work she had never liked.

"I wish it was Christmas or New Year's all the time. Wouldn't that be wonderful?" answered Jo, yawning unhappily.

"We wouldn't enjoy ourselves nearly as much as we do now. But it does seem so nice to have little suppers and flowers, and go to parties, and ride home, and read and rest, and not work. It's like other people, you know, and I always envy girls who do such things, I love luxury so much," said Meg, trying to decide which of two worn-out dresses was the least worn-out.

"Well, we can't have it, so let's not complain but pick up our burdens and go forward as cheerfully as Marmee does. I'm sure Aunt March is like a heavy load to me, but I suppose when I've learned to carry her without complaining, she will fall off, or get so light that I won't mind her."

This idea made Jo laugh and put her in good spirits, but Meg didn't cheer up, because her burden—four spoiled children—seemed heavier than ever. She didn't even have the heart to make herself pretty as usual by putting on a blue neck ribbon and fixing her hair in the most becoming way.

"What's the point of looking nice, when no one sees me but those difficult little children, and no one cares whether I'm pretty or not?" she muttered, shutting her drawer with a bang. "I shall have to work and struggle all my days, with only little bits of fun now and then, and get old and ugly and bitter, because I'm poor and can't enjoy my life as other girls do. It's not fair!"

So Meg went downstairs, wearing an unhappy expression, and was not at all pleasant at breakfast time. Everyone seemed rather unhappy and ready to complain.

Beth had a headache and lay on the sofa, trying to comfort herself with the cat and three kittens. Amy was upset because her lessons were not done, and she couldn't find her rubber boots. Jo would whistle and make a great deal of noise getting ready.

Mrs. March was very busy trying to finish a letter, which had to go at once, and Hannah was in a bad mood, because staying up late didn't suit her.

"There never was such a grumpy family!" cried Jo, losing her temper when she had knocked over an ink bottle, broken both shoe laces, and sat down on her hat.

"You're the grumpiest person in it!" returned Amy, washing out the sum that was all wrong with the tears that had fallen on her writing slate.

"Beth, if you don't keep these awful cats down in the cellar I'll have them removed," exclaimed Meg angrily as she tried to free herself from the kitten which had climbed up her back and was clinging there just out of reach.

Jo laughed, Meg scolded, Beth pleaded, and Amy cried because she couldn't remember how much nine times twelve was.

"Girls, girls, please be quiet for one minute! I must get this sent by the early mail, and you are driving me crazy with your noise," cried Mrs. March, crossing out the third ruined sentence in her letter.

There was a brief silence, broken by Hannah, who came in, put two hot pies on the table, and went out again. These pies were a regular thing, and the girls called them 'muffs', because they had no real ones and found the hot pies very warming to their hands on cold mornings.

Hannah never forgot to make them, no matter how busy or grumpy she might be, because the walk was long and cold. The poor things got no other lunch and were seldom home before two.

"Take care of your cats and get over your headache, Beth. Goodbye, Marmee. We are all being terrible this morning, but we'll come home like perfect angels. Come on then, Meg!" And Jo marched away, feeling that the pilgrims were not starting out as they should.

They always looked back before turning the corner, because their mother was always at the window to nod and smile, and wave her hand to them. Somehow it seemed as if they couldn't get through the day without that, because whatever their mood might be, the last glimpse of that motherly face was sure to affect them like sunshine.

"If Marmee shook her fist instead of waving goodbye to us, it would serve us right, because more ungrateful people than we are were never seen," cried Jo, finding a kind of sad satisfaction in the snowy walk and bitter wind.

"Don't use such terrible expressions," replied Meg from inside the scarf in which she had wrapped herself like a person who was tired of the world.

"I like strong words that mean something," replied Jo, catching her hat as it took a leap off her head and nearly blew away.

"Call yourself any names you like, but I am neither a rascal nor a terrible person and I don't choose to be called so."

"You're a discouraged person, and clearly unhappy today because you can't sit in the lap of luxury all the time. Poor dear, just wait until I make my fortune, and you shall enjoy carriages and ice cream and high-heeled slippers, and flowers, and red-headed boys to dance with."

"How ridiculous you are, Jo!" But Meg laughed at the nonsense and felt better in spite of herself.

"Lucky for you I am, because if I put on a miserable manner and tried to be gloomy, as you do, we'd be in a terrible state. Thank goodness, I can always find something funny to cheer me up. Don't be gloomy anymore, but come home happy, there's a dear."

Jo gave her sister an encouraging pat on the shoulder as they parted for the day, each going a different way, each carrying her little warm pie, and each trying to be cheerful in spite of the wintry weather, hard work, and the unfulfilled desires of pleasure-loving youth.

When Mr. March lost his money in trying to help an unfortunate friend, the two oldest girls begged to be allowed to do something toward supporting themselves, at least. Believing that they could not begin too early to develop energy, hard work, and independence, their parents agreed, and both went to work with the enthusiastic goodwill which, in spite of all obstacles, is sure to succeed in the end.

Margaret found a place as a governess and felt rich with her small salary. As she said, she was fond of luxury, and her main problem was poverty. She found it harder to bear than the others because she could remember a time when home was beautiful, life was full of ease and pleasure, and wanting for anything was unknown. She tried not to be envious or unhappy, but it was very natural that the young girl should long for pretty things, lively friends, accomplishments, and a happy life. At the Kings' house she saw every day all she wanted, because the children's older sisters were just coming into society, and Meg regularly caught glimpses of elegant ball gowns and flowers, heard lively gossip about theaters, concerts, sleighing parties, and all kinds of fun, and saw money spent freely on small things that would have meant so much to her. Poor Meg rarely complained, but a feeling of injustice sometimes made her bitter toward everyone, because she had not yet learned to know how rich she was in the blessings which alone can make life happy.

Jo happened to suit Aunt March, who was unable to walk well and needed an active person to help her. The childless old lady had offered to adopt one of the girls when the family's troubles came, and was very offended when her offer was turned down. Other friends told the Marches that they had lost all chance of being remembered in the rich old lady's will, but the unworldly Marches only said...

"We can't give up our girls for a dozen fortunes. Rich or poor, we will stay together and be happy in one another."

The old lady wouldn't speak to them for a time, but happening to meet Jo at a friend's house, something in her funny face and direct manner caught the old lady's attention, and she suggested taking her as a companion. This did not suit Jo at all, but she accepted the position since nothing better appeared, and to everyone's surprise, she got on remarkably well with her difficult relative. There was an occasional argument, and once Jo went home, saying she couldn't stand it anymore, but Aunt March always calmed down quickly, and sent for her to come back with such urgency that she could not refuse, because in her heart she rather liked the sharp old lady.

I suspect that the real attraction was a large library of fine books, which had been left to gather dust and spiders since Uncle March died. Jo remembered the kind old gentleman, who used to let her build railroads and bridges with his big dictionaries, tell her stories about strange pictures in his Latin books, and buy her gingerbread whenever he met her in the street. The dim, dusty room, with the statues staring down from the tall bookshelves, the cozy chairs, the globes, and best of all, the wonderful collection of books in which she could wander wherever she liked, made the library a paradise for her.

The moment Aunt March took her nap, or was busy with visitors, Jo hurried to this quiet place, and curling herself up in the easy chair, devoured poetry, romance, history, travel books, and picture books like a complete bookworm. But, like all happiness, it did not last long, because as sure as she had just reached the most exciting part of the story, the sweetest verse of a song, or the most dangerous adventure of her traveler, a sharp voice called, "Josy-phine! Josy-phine!" and she had to leave her paradise to wind yarn, wash the poodle, or read boring essays by the hour.

Jo's ambition was to do something very wonderful. What it was, she had no idea yet, but left it for time to tell her, and meanwhile, found her greatest frustration in the fact that she couldn't read, run, and ride as much as she liked. A quick temper, sharp tongue, and restless spirit were always getting her into trouble, and her life was a series of ups and downs, which were both funny and sad. But the training she received at Aunt March's was just what she needed, and the thought that she was doing something to support herself made her happy in spite of the constant "Josy-phine!"

Beth was too shy to go to school. It had been tried, but she suffered so much that it was given up, and she did her lessons at home with her father. Even when he went away, and her mother was called to devote her skill and energy to Soldiers' Aid Societies, Beth continued faithfully on by herself and did the best she could. She was a tidy little creature, and helped Hannah keep home neat and comfortable for the workers, never thinking of any reward except to be loved. She spent long, quiet days that were neither lonely nor idle, because her little world was filled with imaginary friends, and she was naturally a busy little person. There were six dolls to be taken up and dressed every morning, because Beth was still a child and loved her toys as much as ever. Not one complete or beautiful one among them, all were cast-offs until Beth took them in, because when her sisters outgrew these toys, they passed to her as Amy would have nothing old or ugly. Beth cared for them all the more tenderly for that very reason, and set up a hospital for damaged dolls. No pins were ever stuck into their stuffed bodies, no harsh words or blows were ever given them, no neglect ever saddened the heart of even the most worn-out one, but all were fed and clothed, cared for and loved with an affection which never failed. One very sad piece of a doll had belonged to Jo and, having had a rough life, had ended up as a wreck in the rag bag, from which sad place it was rescued by Beth and taken to her care. Having no top to its head, she tied on a neat little cap, and as both arms and legs were gone, she hid these problems by wrapping it in a blanket and giving her best bed to this constantly ill patient. If anyone had known the care given to that doll, I think it would have touched their hearts, even while they laughed. She brought it little bits of flowers, she read to it, took it out to get fresh air hidden under her coat, she sang it lullabies and never went to bed without kissing its dirty face and whispering gently, "I hope you'll have a good night, my poor dear."

Beth had her troubles as well as the others, and not being an angel but a very human little girl, she often cried quietly, as Jo said, because she couldn't take music lessons and have a good piano. She loved music so deeply, tried so hard to learn, and practiced so patiently on the old out-of-tune instrument, that it did seem as if someone (perhaps Aunt March) should help her. Nobody did, however, and nobody saw Beth wipe the tears off the yellowed keys that wouldn't stay in tune, when she was all alone. She sang like a little bird about her work, was never too tired to help Marmee and the girls, and day after day said hopefully to herself, "I know I'll get my music someday, if I'm good."

There are many Beths in the world, shy and quiet, sitting in corners until needed, and living for others so cheerfully that no one notices the sacrifices until the little quiet presence disappears, leaving silence and emptiness behind.

If anyone had asked Amy what the greatest difficulty in her life was, she would have answered immediately, "My nose." When she was a baby, Jo had accidentally dropped her into the coal bucket, and Amy insisted that the fall had ruined her nose forever. It was not big or red, like poor 'Petrea's', it was only rather flat, and no amount of pinching could give it an elegant shape. No one minded it but herself, and it was doing its best to grow, but Amy felt deeply the lack of a Greek nose, and drew whole pages of elegant ones to comfort herself.

"Little Raphael," as her sisters called her, had a clear talent for drawing, and was never so happy as when copying flowers, drawing fairies, or illustrating stories with funny examples of her art. Her teachers complained that instead of doing her math she covered her slate with animals, the blank pages of her atlas were used to copy maps on, and cartoons of the most amusing kind came falling out of all her books at the worst moments. She got through her lessons as well as she could, and managed to avoid punishment by being a model of good behavior. She was very popular with her friends, being good-tempered and having the natural ability to please without trying. Her little airs and graces were much admired, as were her skills, because besides her drawing, she could play twelve tunes, crochet, and read French while only mispronouncing more than two-thirds of the words. She had a sad way of saying, "When Papa was rich we did so-and-so," which was very touching, and her long words were considered 'perfectly elegant' by the girls.

Amy was well on her way to being spoiled, because everyone pampered her, and her small vanities and selfishnesses were growing nicely. One thing, however, somewhat checked the vanities. She had to wear her cousin's clothes. Now Florence's mother had no taste at all, and Amy suffered deeply at having to wear a red instead of a blue hat, unbecoming dresses, and fussy aprons that did not fit. Everything was good, well made, and barely worn, but Amy's artistic eyes were much distressed, especially this winter, when her school dress was a dull purple with yellow dots and no decoration.

"My only comfort," she said to Meg, with tears in her eyes, "is that Mother doesn't shorten my dresses whenever I'm naughty, as Maria Parks's mother does. My dear, it's really awful, because sometimes she is so bad her dress is up to her knees, and she can't come to school. When I think of this humiliation, I feel that I can bear even my flat nose and purple dress with yellow spots on it."

Meg was Amy's confidant and guide, and by some strange attraction of opposites Jo was quiet Beth's closest companion. Only to Jo did the shy child tell her thoughts, and over her lively older sister Beth quietly had more influence than anyone in the family. The two older girls were very close to each other, but each took one of the younger sisters under her care and watched over her in her own way, calling it 'playing mother', and treated their sisters like beloved companions with the caring nature of little women.

"Has anybody got anything to tell? It's been such a gloomy day I'm truly dying for some entertainment," said Meg, as they sat sewing together that evening.

"I had a strange time with Aunt today, and, since I got the better of it, I'll tell you about it," began Jo, who loved to tell stories. "I was reading that never-ending Belsham, and droning away as I always do, because Aunt soon falls asleep, and then I take out some nice book, and read quickly until she wakes up. I actually made myself sleepy, and before she began to nod, I yawned so widely that she asked me what I meant by opening my mouth wide enough to swallow the whole book at once."

"I wish I could, and be done with it," said I, trying not to be rude.

"Then she gave me a long lecture about my faults, and told me to sit and think them over while she just 'rested' for a moment. She never finds herself very soon, so the minute her head began to droop like a heavy flower, I pulled the Vicar of Wakefield out of my pocket, and read away, with one eye on it and one on Aunt. I'd just got to where they all fell into the water when I forgot and laughed out loud. Aunt woke up and, being in a better mood after her nap, told me to read a bit and show what silly thing I preferred to the worthy and educational Belsham. I did my very best, and she liked it, though she only said...

"'I don't understand what it's all about. Go back and begin it, child.'"

"Back I went, and made the Primroses as interesting as I could. Once I was naughty enough to stop at an exciting part, and say quietly, 'I'm afraid it tires you, ma'am. Shall I stop now?'"

"She grabbed her knitting, which had fallen from her hands, gave me a sharp look through her glasses, and said, briefly, 'Finish the chapter, and don't be impertinent, young lady'."

"Did she admit she liked it?" asked Meg.

"Oh, goodness, no! But she let old Belsham rest, and when I ran back for my gloves this afternoon, there she was, reading the Vicar so hard that she didn't hear me laugh as I did a little dance in the hallway because of the good time coming. What a pleasant life she could have if only she chose! I don't really envy her, in spite of her money, because after all rich people have about as many worries as poor ones, I think," added Jo.

"That reminds me," said Meg, "that I've got something to tell. It isn't funny, like Jo's story, but I thought about it a great deal as I came home. At the Kings' today I found everyone in a commotion, and one of the children said that her oldest brother had done something terrible, and Papa had sent him away. I heard Mrs. King crying and Mr. King talking very loudly, and Grace and Ellen turned their faces away when they passed me, so I wouldn't see how red and swollen their eyes were. I didn't ask any questions, of course, but I felt so sorry for them and was rather glad I didn't have any wild brothers to do bad things and bring shame to the family."

"I think being disgraced at school is much worse than anything bad boys can do," said Amy, shaking her head, as if her experience of life had been very deep. "Susie Perkins came to school today with a lovely red stone ring. I wanted it desperately, and wished I were her with all my heart. Well, she drew a picture of Mr. Davis, with a huge nose and a hump, and the words, 'Young ladies, my eye is upon you!' coming out of his mouth in a speech bubble. We were laughing over it when suddenly his eye really was on us, and he ordered Susie to bring up her slate. She was terrified with fear, but she went, and oh, what do you think he did? He took her by the ear—the ear! Just imagine how awful!—and led her to the front platform, and made her stand there for half an hour, holding the slate so everyone could see."

"Didn't the girls laugh at the picture?" asked Jo, who enjoyed the story.

"Laugh? Not one! They sat still as mice, and Susie cried a lot, I know she did. I didn't envy her then, because I felt that millions of rings wouldn't have made me happy after that. I never, never could have gotten over such a terrible humiliation." And Amy went on with her work, proudly aware of her own virtue and having successfully used two long words in a row.

"I saw something I liked this morning, and I meant to tell it at dinner, but I forgot," said Beth, putting Jo's messy sewing basket in order as she talked. "When I went to get some fish for Hannah, Mr. Laurence was in the fish shop, but he didn't see me, because I stayed behind the fish barrel, and he was busy talking with Mr. Cutter the fishmonger. A poor woman came in with a bucket and a mop, and asked Mr. Cutter if he would let her do some scrubbing in exchange for a bit of fish, because she had nothing for her children to eat, and had been let down about a day's work. Mr. Cutter was in a hurry and said 'No', rather rudely, so she was going away, looking hungry and sad, when Mr. Laurence hooked a big fish with the curved end of his cane and held it out to her. She was so happy and surprised she took it right into her arms, and thanked him over and over. He told her to 'go along and cook it', and she hurried off, so happy! Wasn't it good of him? Oh, she did look so funny, hugging the big, slippery fish, and hoping Mr. Laurence's bed in heaven would be comfortable."

When they had laughed at Beth's story, they asked their mother for one, and after a moment's thought, she said seriously, "As I sat cutting out blue flannel jackets today at the workroom, I felt very worried about Father, and thought how lonely and helpless we would be, if anything happened to him. It was not a wise thing to do, but I kept on worrying until an old man came in with an order for some clothes. He sat down near me, and I began to talk to him, because he looked poor and tired and worried.

"'Have you sons in the army?' I asked, because the note he brought was not addressed to me."

"'Yes, ma'am. I had four, but two were killed, one is a prisoner, and I'm going to the other, who is very sick in a Washington hospital,'" he answered quietly."

"'You have given a great deal for your country, sir,' I said, feeling respect now, instead of pity."

"'Not a bit more than I should, ma'am. I'd go myself, if I was any use. As I'm not, I give my boys, and give them freely.'"

"He spoke so cheerfully, looked so sincere, and seemed so glad to give everything he had, that I felt ashamed of myself. I'd given one man and thought it was too much, while he gave four without complaining. I had all my girls to comfort me at home, and his last son was waiting, miles away, to say goodbye to him, perhaps! I felt so rich, so happy thinking of my blessings, that I made him a nice bundle, gave him some money, and thanked him truly for the lesson he had taught me."

"Tell another story, Mother, one with a lesson in it, like this. I like to think about them afterward, if they are real and not too preachy," said Jo, after a minute's silence.

Mrs. March smiled and began at once, because she had told stories to this small audience for many years, and knew how to please them.

"Once upon a time, there were four girls, who had enough to eat and drink and wear, a good many comforts and pleasures, kind friends and parents who loved them dearly, and yet they were not satisfied." (Here the listeners secretly glanced at one another, and began to sew diligently.) "These girls were eager to be good and made many excellent promises, but they did not keep them very well, and were constantly saying, 'If only we had this,' or 'If we could only do that,' completely forgetting how much they already had, and how many things they actually could do. So they asked an old woman what they could do to be happy, and she said, 'When you feel unhappy, think over your blessings, and be grateful.'" (Here Jo looked up quickly, as if about to speak, but changed her mind, seeing that the story was not done yet.)

"Being sensible girls, they decided to follow her advice, and soon were surprised to see how well off they were. One discovered that money couldn't keep shame and sorrow out of rich people's houses, another that, though she was poor, she was much happier, with her youth, health, and good spirits, than a certain irritable, weak old lady who couldn't enjoy her comforts, a third that, unpleasant as it was to help cook dinner, it was harder still to go begging for it, and the fourth, that even beautiful rings were not so valuable as good behavior. So they agreed to stop complaining, to enjoy the blessings they already had, and try to deserve them, in case they should be taken away completely, instead of increased, and I believe they were never disappointed or sorry that they took the old woman's advice."

"Now, Marmee, that is very clever of you to use our own stories against us, and give us a lesson instead of a story!" cried Meg.

"I like that kind of lesson. It's the kind Father used to tell us," said Beth thoughtfully, straightening the needles on Jo's cushion.

"I don't complain nearly as much as the others do, and I shall be more careful than ever now, because I've had a warning from Susie's embarrassment," said Amy proudly.

"We needed that lesson, and we won't forget it. If we do, you just say to us, as old Chloe did in Uncle Tom, 'Think of your blessings, children! Think of your blessings!'" added Jo, who could not, no matter what, help getting a bit of fun out of the little lesson, though she took it to heart as much as any of them.
