

   "Jo! Jo! Where are you?" cried Meg at the bottom of the attic stairs.

"Here!" answered a rough voice from above, and, running up, Meg found her sister eating apples and crying over the Heir of Redclyffe, wrapped up in a blanket on an old three-legged sofa by the sunny window. This was Jo's favorite hiding place, and here she loved to come with half a dozen apples and a nice book, to enjoy the quiet and the company of a pet rat who lived nearby and didn't mind her at all. As Meg appeared, Scrabble ran into his hole. Jo wiped the tears off her cheeks and waited to hear the news.

"Such fun! Just look! A proper invitation from Mrs. Gardiner for tomorrow night!" cried Meg, waving the precious paper and then reading it with girlish delight.

"'Mrs. Gardiner would be happy to see Miss March and Miss Josephine at a small dance on New Year's Eve.' Marmee is willing we should go, now what shall we wear?"

"What's the point of asking that, when you know we shall wear our poplin dresses, because we haven't got anything else?" answered Jo with her mouth full.

"If I only had a silk dress!" sighed Meg. "Mother says I may have one when I'm eighteen perhaps, but two years is forever to wait."

"I'm sure our poplins look like silk, and they are nice enough for us. Yours is as good as new, but I forgot about the burn and the tear in mine. Whatever shall I do? The burn shows badly, and I can't cut it out."

"You must sit still as much as you can and keep your back out of sight. The front is all right. I'll have a new ribbon for my hair, and Marmee will lend me her little pearl pin, and my new slippers are lovely, and my gloves will do, though they aren't as nice as I'd like."

"Mine are stained with lemonade, and I can't get new ones, so I shall have to go without," said Jo, who never worried much about her clothes.

"You must have gloves, or I won't go," cried Meg firmly. "Gloves are more important than anything else. You can't dance without them, and if you don't have them I shall be so embarrassed."

"Then I'll stand still. I don't care much for group dancing. It's no fun to go gliding around. I like to run about and have fun."

"You can't ask Mother for new ones, they are so expensive, and you are so careless. She said when you ruined the others that she wouldn't get you any more this winter. Can't you make them work?"

"I can hold them squeezed up in my hand, so no one will see how stained they are. That's all I can do. No! I'll tell you how we can manage, each wear one good one and carry a bad one. Don't you see?"

"Your hands are bigger than mine, and you will stretch my glove terribly," began Meg, whose gloves were a sensitive matter for her.

"Then I'll go without. I don't care what people say!" cried Jo, picking up her book.

"You may have it, you may! Only don't stain it, and do behave nicely. Don't put your hands behind you, or stare, or say silly things, will you?"

"Don't worry about me. I'll be as proper as I can and not get into any trouble, if I can help it. Now go and write your reply, and let me finish this wonderful story."

So Meg went away to 'accept with thanks', check over her dress, and sing happily as she took care of her one real lace frill, while Jo finished her story, her four apples, and had a lively game with Scrabble.

On New Year's Eve the sitting room was empty, because the two younger girls helped the two older ones get ready, and the two older ones were completely absorbed in the all-important task of getting ready for the party. Simple as the preparations were, there was a great deal of running back and forth, laughing and talking, and at one time a strong smell of burned hair filled the house. Meg wanted a few curls around her face, and Jo tried to create the curled sections with a pair of hot tongs.

"Should they smoke like that?" asked Beth from her spot on the bed.

"It's the dampness drying," replied Jo.

"What a strange smell! It's like burned feathers," observed Amy, smoothing her own pretty curls with a superior air.

"There, now I'll take off the papers and you'll see a cloud of little ringlets," said Jo, putting down the tongs.

She did take off the papers, but no cloud of ringlets appeared, because the hair came off with the papers, and the horrified hairdresser laid a row of little burned bits on the dresser in front of her victim.

"Oh, oh, oh! What have you done? I'm ruined! I can't go! My hair, oh, my hair!" cried Meg, looking with despair at the uneven burnt pieces on her forehead.

"Just my luck! You shouldn't have asked me to do it. I always ruin everything. I'm so sorry, but the tongs were too hot, and so I've made a mess," groaned poor Jo, looking at the little black pieces with tears of regret.

"It isn't ruined. Just curl it, and tie your ribbon so the ends come on your forehead a bit, and it will look like the latest fashion. I've seen many girls do it that way," said Amy, trying to comfort her.

"Serves me right for trying to look fancy. I wish I'd left my hair alone," cried Meg irritably.

"So do I, it was so smooth and pretty. But it will soon grow out again," said Beth, coming to hug and comfort the unfortunate one.

After various smaller accidents, Meg was ready at last, and with the combined efforts of the whole family, Jo's hair was put up and her dress was on. They looked very nice in their simple outfits, Meg's in silver-gray, with a blue velvet hair ribbon, lace frills, and the pearl pin. Jo in dark red, with a stiff, neat white collar, and a white chrysanthemum or two for her only decoration. Each put on one nice light glove, and carried one stained one, and everyone said the effect was "quite easy and elegant". Meg's high-heeled slippers were very tight and hurt her, though she wouldn't admit it, and Jo's nineteen hair pins all seemed stuck straight into her head, which was not exactly comfortable, but, oh well, let us be elegant or die.

"Have a good time, darlings!" said Mrs. March, as the sisters walked carefully down the path. "Don't eat too much supper, and come back at eleven when I send Hannah for you." As the gate closed behind them, a voice cried from a window...

"Girls, girls! Have you both got nice handkerchiefs?"

"Yes, yes, nice clean ones, and Meg has cologne on hers," cried Jo, adding with a laugh as they went on, "I truly believe Marmee would ask that if we were all running away from an earthquake."

"It is one of her refined habits, and quite right, for a real lady is always known by her neat boots, gloves, and handkerchief," replied Meg, who had quite a few little refined habits of her own.

"Now don't forget to keep the bad side of your dress out of sight, Jo. Is my sash right? And does my hair look very bad?" said Meg, as she turned from the mirror in Mrs. Gardiner's dressing room after a long preparation.

"I know I shall forget. If you see me doing anything wrong, just remind me by a wink, will you?" returned Jo, giving her collar a tug and her head a quick brush.

"No, winking isn't ladylike. I'll lift my eyebrows if anything is wrong, and nod if you are all right. Now hold your shoulders straight, and take small steps, and don't shake hands if you are introduced to anyone. It isn't the proper thing."

"How do you learn all the proper ways? I never can. Isn't that music cheerful?"

Down they went, feeling a little nervous, because they rarely went to parties, and informal as this small gathering was, it was a big event to them. Mrs. Gardiner, an impressive old lady, greeted them kindly and introduced them to the oldest of her six daughters. Meg knew Sallie and felt comfortable very soon, but Jo, who didn't care much for girls or girlish conversation, stood around, with her back carefully against the wall, and felt as out of place as a horse in a flower garden. Half a dozen cheerful boys were talking about skates in another part of the room, and she longed to go and join them, because skating was one of the great joys of her life. She communicated her wish to Meg, but the eyebrows went up so warningly that she dared not move. No one came to talk to her, and one by one the group drifted away until she was left alone. She couldn't walk around and amuse herself, because the burned part of her dress would show, so she stared at people rather sadly until the dancing began. Meg was asked to dance immediately, and the tight slippers moved so briskly that no one would have guessed the pain their wearer suffered while smiling. Jo saw a big red-headed young man coming toward her corner, and fearing he meant to ask her to dance, she slipped into a curtained area, planning to watch and enjoy herself in peace. Unfortunately, another shy person had chosen the same hiding place, for, as the curtain fell behind her, she found herself face to face with the 'Laurence boy'.

"Oh! I didn't know anyone was here!" stammered Jo, preparing to back out as quickly as she had come in.

But the boy laughed and said pleasantly, though he looked a little surprised, "Don't mind me, stay if you like."

"Won't I disturb you?"

"Not at all. I only came here because I don't know many people and felt rather out of place at first, you know."

"So did I. Don't go away, please, unless you'd prefer to."

The boy sat down again and looked at his shoes, until Jo said, trying to be polite and relaxed, "I think I've seen you before. You live near us, don't you?"

"Next door." And he looked up and laughed out loud, because Jo's proper manner was rather funny when he remembered how they had chatted about cricket when he brought the cat home.

That put Jo at ease and she laughed too, as she said, in her warmest way, "We did have such a good time over your lovely Christmas present."

"Grandpa sent it."

"But you gave him the idea, didn't you, now?"

"How is your cat, Miss March?" asked the boy, trying to look serious while his dark eyes shone with fun.

"Very well, thank you, Mr. Laurence. But I am not Miss March, I'm only Jo," returned the young lady.

"I'm not Mr. Laurence, I'm only Laurie."

"Laurie Laurence, what a strange name."

"My real name is Theodore, but I don't like it, because the boys called me Dora, so I made them say Laurie instead."

"I hate my name, too, so sentimental! I wish everyone would say Jo instead of Josephine. How did you make the boys stop calling you Dora?"

"I hit them."

"I can't hit Aunt March, so I suppose I shall have to put up with it." And Jo accepted this with a sigh.

"Don't you like to dance, Miss Jo?" asked Laurie, looking as if he thought the name suited her.

"I like it well enough if there is plenty of room, and everyone is lively. In a place like this I'm sure to knock something over, step on people's toes, or do something terrible, so I keep out of trouble and let Meg float around. Don't you dance?"

"Sometimes. You see I've been abroad for many years, and haven't been in company enough yet to know how you do things here."

"Abroad!" cried Jo. "Oh, tell me about it! I love to hear people describe their travels."

Laurie didn't seem to know where to begin, but Jo's eager questions soon got him started, and he told her how he had been at school in Vevay, where the boys never wore hats and had a group of boats on the lake, and for holiday fun went on walking trips around Switzerland with their teachers.

"Don't I wish I'd been there!" cried Jo. "Did you go to Paris?"

"We spent last winter there."

"Can you speak French?"

"We were not allowed to speak anything else at Vevay."

"Do say some! I can read it, but can't pronounce it."

"Quel nom a cette jeune demoiselle en les pantoufles jolis?"

"How nicely you say it! Let me see... you said, 'Who is the young lady in the pretty slippers', didn't you?"

"Oui, mademoiselle."

"It's my sister Margaret, and you knew that! Do you think she is pretty?"

"Yes, she reminds me of the German girls, she looks so fresh and calm, and dances like a lady."

Jo felt very pleased at this boyish praise of her sister, and kept it to repeat to Meg. Both watched and talked and chatted until they felt like old friends. Laurie's shyness soon disappeared, because Jo's natural manner amused him and made him comfortable, and Jo was her cheerful self again, because she forgot about her dress and nobody raised their eyebrows at her. She liked the 'Laurence boy' better than ever and took several good looks at him, so that she could describe him to the girls, because they had no brothers, very few male cousins, and boys were almost completely unknown to them.

"Curly black hair, brown skin, big dark eyes, handsome nose, fine teeth, small hands and feet, taller than I am, very polite for a boy, and altogether pleasant. I wonder how old he is?"

It was almost on Jo's tongue to ask, but she stopped herself in time and, with unusual care, tried to find out in a roundabout way.

"I suppose you are going to college soon? I see you working hard at your books—I mean studying hard." And Jo blushed at the word 'pegging' which had slipped out.

Laurie smiled but didn't seem bothered, and answered with a shrug. "Not for a year or two. I won't go before seventeen, anyway."

"Aren't you but fifteen?" asked Jo, looking at the tall boy, whom she had imagined to be seventeen already.

"Sixteen, next month."

"How I wish I was going to college! You don't look as if you liked it."

"I hate it! Nothing but hard work or fooling around. And I don't like the way boys behave either, in this country."

"What do you like?"

"To live in Italy, and to enjoy myself in my own way."

Jo very much wanted to ask what his own way was, but his dark eyebrows looked rather threatening as he frowned, so she changed the subject by saying, as her foot kept time to the music, "That's a wonderful polka! Why don't you go and try it?"

"If you will come too," he answered, with a polite little bow.

"I can't, because I told Meg I wouldn't, because..." There Jo stopped, and looked uncertain whether to explain or to laugh.

"Because, what?"

"You won't tell?"

"Never!"

"Well, I have a bad habit of standing in front of the fire, and so I burn my dresses, and I scorched this one, and though it's nicely mended, it shows, and Meg told me to keep still so no one would see it. You may laugh, if you want to. It is funny, I know."

But Laurie didn't laugh. He only looked down for a moment, and the expression on his face puzzled Jo when he said very gently, "Never mind that. I'll tell you how we can manage. There's a long hallway out there, and we can dance beautifully, and no one will see us. Please come."

Jo thanked him and happily agreed, wishing she had two neat gloves when she saw the nice, pearl-colored ones her partner wore. The hallway was empty, and they had a wonderful dance, because Laurie danced well, and taught her the German step, which delighted Jo, being full of energy and movement. When the music stopped, they sat down on the stairs to catch their breath, and Laurie was in the middle of telling her about a students' celebration at Heidelberg when Meg appeared looking for her sister. She signaled to Jo, who reluctantly followed her into a side room, where she found her on a sofa, holding her foot, and looking pale.

"I've twisted my ankle. That silly high heel turned and gave me a bad injury. It aches so, I can hardly stand, and I don't know how I'm ever going to get home," she said, rocking back and forth in pain.

"I knew you'd hurt your feet with those silly shoes. I'm sorry. But I don't see what you can do, except get a carriage, or stay here all night," answered Jo, gently rubbing the poor ankle as she spoke.

"I can't get a carriage without it costing a lot. I probably can't get one at all, because most people came in their own, and it's a long way to the stable, and no one to send."

"I'll go."

"No, certainly not! It's past nine, and very dark. I can't stay here, the house is full. Sallie has some girls staying with her. I'll rest until Hannah comes, and then do the best I can."

"I'll ask Laurie. He will help," said Jo, looking relieved at the idea.

"Goodness, no! Don't ask or tell anyone. Get me my rubber boots, and put these slippers with our things. I can't dance anymore, but as soon as supper is over, watch for Hannah and tell me the minute she comes."

"They are going in to supper now. I'll stay with you. I'd prefer to."

"No, dear, run along, and bring me some coffee. I'm so tired I can't move."

So Meg settled back, with rubber boots well hidden, and Jo went awkwardly off to the dining room, which she found after going into a china closet, and opening the door of a room where old Mr. Gardiner was taking a private little snack. Making a dash at the table, she got the coffee, which she immediately spilled, making the front of her dress as bad as the back.

"Oh, dear, what a clumsy person I am!" exclaimed Jo, using Meg's glove to try to clean her dress.

"Can I help you?" said a friendly voice. And there was Laurie, with a full cup in one hand and a plate of ice cream in the other.

"I was trying to get something for Meg, who is very tired, and someone bumped me, and here I am in a terrible state," answered Jo, looking sadly from the stained skirt to the coffee-colored glove.

"Too bad! I was looking for someone to give this to. May I take it to your sister?"

"Oh, thank you! I'll show you where she is. I don't offer to take it myself, because I should only get into another mess if I did."

Jo led the way, and as if used to helping ladies, Laurie brought over a little table, went for a second portion of coffee and ice cream for Jo, and was so helpful that even particular Meg called him a 'nice boy'. They had a cheerful time over the sweets and mottoes, and were in the middle of a quiet game of Buzz, with two or three other young people who had wandered in, when Hannah appeared. Meg forgot her foot and stood up so quickly that she had to grab hold of Jo, with a cry of pain.

"Sh! Don't say anything," she whispered, adding out loud, "It's nothing. I turned my foot a little, that's all," and walked slowly upstairs to put on her things.

Hannah scolded, Meg cried, and Jo didn't know what to do, until she decided to take matters into her own hands. Going quietly out, she ran downstairs and, finding a servant, asked if he could get her a carriage. It happened to be a hired waiter who knew nothing about the neighborhood and Jo was looking around for help when Laurie, who had heard what she said, came up and offered his grandfather's carriage, which had just arrived for him, he said.

"It's so early! You can't mean to go yet?" began Jo, looking relieved but hesitating to accept the offer.

"I always go early, I do, truly! Please let me take you home. It's all on my way, you know, and it's raining, they say."

That settled it, and telling him about Meg's injury, Jo gratefully accepted and hurried up to bring down the rest of the party. Hannah disliked rain as much as a cat does so she made no trouble, and they rode away in the comfortable closed carriage, feeling very festive and elegant. Laurie went in the front seat so Meg could keep her foot up, and the girls talked freely about their party.

"I had a wonderful time. Did you?" asked Jo, letting down her hair and making herself comfortable.

"Yes, until I hurt myself. Sallie's friend, Annie Moffat, took a liking to me, and asked me to come and spend a week with her when Sallie does. She is going in the spring when the opera comes, and it will be absolutely wonderful, if Mother only lets me go," answered Meg, cheering up at the thought.

"I saw you dancing with the red-headed man I ran away from. Was he nice?"

"Oh, very! His hair is auburn, not red, and he was very polite, and I had a delicious dance with him."

"He looked like a grasshopper jumping around when he did the new step. Laurie and I couldn't help laughing. Did you hear us?"

"No, but it was very rude. What were you doing all that time, hidden away there?"

Jo told her adventures, and by the time she had finished they were at home. With many thanks, they said good night and crept in, hoping not to wake anyone, but the instant their door made a sound, two little nightcaps bobbed up, and two sleepy but eager voices cried out...

"Tell about the party! Tell about the party!"

In a way that Meg called quite rude, Jo had saved some sweets for the little girls, and they soon went back to sleep, after hearing the most exciting events of the evening.

"I declare, it really feels like being a fine young lady, to come home from the party in a carriage and sit in my dressing gown with someone to wait on me," said Meg, as Jo bandaged her foot and brushed her hair.

"I don't believe fine young ladies enjoy themselves any more than we do, in spite of our burned hair, old dresses, one glove each, and tight slippers that twist our ankles when we are foolish enough to wear them." And I think Jo was quite right.
