

  "That boy is a perfect cyclops, isn't he?" said Amy one day, as Laurie rode past on horseback, waving his riding whip as he went by.

"How dare you say so, when he has both his eyes? And very handsome ones they are, too," cried Jo, who didn't like any critical remarks about her friend.

"I didn't say anything about his eyes, and I don't see why you need to get angry when I admire his riding."

"Oh, goodness! That little goose means a centaur, and she called him a Cyclops," exclaimed Jo, with a burst of laughter.

"You don't need to be so rude, it's only a 'slip of the tongue', as Mr. Davis says," replied Amy, trying to end Jo with her Latin. "I just wish I had a little of the money Laurie spends on that horse," she added, as if to herself, yet hoping her sisters would hear.

"Why?" asked Meg kindly, because Jo had gone off in another laugh at Amy's second mistake.

"I need it so much. I'm terribly in debt, and it won't be my turn to have the small spending money for a month."

"In debt, Amy? What do you mean?" And Meg looked serious.

"Well, I owe at least a dozen pickled limes, and I can't pay for them, you know, until I have money, because Marmee said I couldn't buy anything on credit at the shop."

"Tell me all about it. Are limes the fashion now? It used to be poking bits of rubber to make balls." And Meg tried to keep a straight face, because Amy looked so serious and important.

"Well, you see, the girls are always buying them, and unless you want to be thought mean, you must do it too. It's nothing but limes now, because everyone is eating them at their desks during school time, and trading them for pencils, bead rings, paper dolls, or something else, at recess. If one girl likes another, she gives her a lime. If she's angry with her, she eats one in front of her, and doesn't offer even a taste. They take turns treating, and I've had quite a few but haven't given any back, and I should because they are like debts of honor, you know."

"How much money would pay them off and restore your reputation?" asked Meg, taking out her purse.

"Twenty-five cents would more than cover it, and leave a few coins over for a treat for you. Don't you like limes?"

"Not much. You may have my share. Here's the money. Make it last as long as you can, because it isn't very plentiful, you know."

"Oh, thank you! It must be so nice to have spending money! I'll have a wonderful feast, because I haven't had a lime this week. I felt bad about taking any, as I couldn't give any back, and I'm truly desperate for one."

The next day Amy was rather late at school, but could not resist the temptation of showing off, with understandable pride, a damp brown-paper package, before she put it in the back of her desk. During the next few minutes the news that Amy March had got twenty-four delicious limes (she ate one on the way) and was going to share them went around her group, and the kindness of her friends became quite overwhelming. Katy Brown invited her to her next party right then and there. Mary Kingsley insisted on lending her her watch until recess, and Jenny Snow, a sarcastic young lady, who had meanly mocked Amy about having no limes, immediately made peace and offered to provide answers to certain difficult math problems. But Amy had not forgotten Miss Snow's cutting remarks about 'some people whose noses were not too flat to smell other people's limes, and stuck-up people who were not too proud to ask for them', and she immediately crushed 'that Snow girl's' hopes with the sharp reply, "You don't need to be so polite all of a sudden, because you won't get any."

An important person happened to visit the school that morning, and Amy's beautifully drawn maps received praise, which honor to her rival irritated Miss Snow, and caused Miss March to take on the airs of a proud young student. But, oh no! Pride comes before a fall, and the vengeful Snow turned the situation around with disastrous success. As soon as the visitor had said the usual polite things and left, Jenny, pretending to ask an important question, told Mr. Davis, the teacher, that Amy March had pickled limes in her desk.

Now Mr. Davis had declared limes forbidden, and had solemnly promised to publicly punish the first person who was found breaking the rule. This long-suffering man had managed to ban chewing gum after a long and difficult struggle, had burned the seized novels and newspapers, had shut down a private message system, had forbidden making faces, using nicknames, and drawing cartoons, and had done everything one man could do to keep fifty rebellious girls in order. Boys are difficult enough to deal with, everyone knows, but girls are infinitely more so, especially for nervous men with bad tempers and no talent for teaching. Mr. Davis knew plenty of Greek, Latin, algebra, and various subjects, so he was called a good teacher, but manners, morals, feelings, and examples were not considered particularly important. It was a very unfortunate moment to report Amy, and Jenny knew it. Mr. Davis had clearly had his coffee too strong that morning, there was an east wind, which always made his headache worse, and his students had not given him the credit which he felt he deserved. Therefore, to use the vivid language of a schoolgirl, "He was as nervous as anything and as irritable as a bear." The word 'limes' was like fire to gunpowder, his pale face flushed, and he banged on his desk with an energy that made Jenny rush to her seat unusually fast.

"Young ladies, attention, please!"

At the stern order the noise stopped, and fifty pairs of blue, black, gray, and brown eyes were obediently fixed on his stern face.

"Miss March, come to the desk."

Amy stood up to comply with outward calm, but a secret fear troubled her, because the limes weighed on her conscience.

"Bring with you the limes you have in your desk," was the unexpected order which stopped her before she got out of her seat.

"Don't take all of them," whispered her neighbor, a young lady with great practical sense.

Amy quickly shook out half a dozen and brought the rest to Mr. Davis, feeling that any man with a human heart would soften when that delicious smell reached his nose. Unfortunately, Mr. Davis particularly disliked the smell of the fashionable pickle, and disgust added to his anger.

"Is that all?"

"Not quite," said Amy quietly.

"Bring the rest immediately."

With a desperate look at her friends, she obeyed.

"You are sure there are no more?"

"I never lie, sir."

"So I see. Now take these horrible things two by two, and throw them out of the window."

There was a collective sigh, which created quite a small wind, as the last hope disappeared, and the treat was taken from their eager mouths. Red with shame and anger, Amy went back and forth six dreadful times, and as each pair, looking oh, so plump and juicy, fell from her reluctant hands, a shout from the street completed the distress of the girls, because it told them that their feast was being enjoyed by the little Irish children outside, who were their enemies. This—this was too much. Everyone flashed angry or pleading looks at the unyielding Davis, and one passionate lime lover burst into tears.

As Amy returned from her last trip, Mr. Davis gave an important "Ahem!" and said, in his most impressive manner...

"Young ladies, you remember what I said to you a week ago. I am sorry this has happened, but I never allow my rules to be broken, and I never break my word. Miss March, hold out your hand."

Amy was startled, and put both hands behind her, giving him a pleading look which begged for mercy better than any words she could say. She was rather a favorite with 'old Davis', as he was naturally called, and I privately believe he would have changed his mind if the anger of one uncontrollable young lady had not found expression in a hiss. That hiss, faint as it was, irritated the easily angered man, and settled the guilty girl's punishment.

"Your hand, Miss March!" was the only response her silent plea received, and too proud to cry or beg, Amy pressed her teeth together, threw back her head defiantly, and accepted without flinching several stinging strikes on her little palm. They were neither many nor hard, but that made no difference to her. Because for the first time in her life she had been physically punished, and the shame of it, in her eyes, was as deep as if he had knocked her down.

"You will now stand on the platform until recess," said Mr. Davis, determined to do the thing completely since he had started.

That was terrible. It would have been bad enough to go back to her seat, and see the sympathetic faces of her friends, or the satisfied ones of her few enemies, but to face the whole school, with that shame still fresh, seemed impossible, and for a second she felt as if she could only fall down where she stood, and cry her heart out. A bitter feeling of injustice and the thought of Jenny Snow helped her to endure it, and, taking the humiliating position, she fixed her eyes on the stove pipe above what now seemed like a sea of faces, and stood there, so still and pale that the girls found it hard to study with that sad figure before them.

During the fifteen minutes that followed, the proud and sensitive little girl suffered a shame and pain which she never forgot. To others it might seem a funny or unimportant matter, but to her it was a hard experience, because during the twelve years of her life she had been guided by love alone, and a punishment of that kind had never touched her before. The pain of her hand and the ache of her heart were forgotten in the sting of the thought, "I shall have to tell at home, and they will be so disappointed in me!"

The fifteen minutes seemed like an hour, but they finally ended, and the word 'Recess!' had never seemed so welcome to her before.

"You can go, Miss March," said Mr. Davis, looking, as he felt, uncomfortable.

He did not soon forget the reproachful look Amy gave him, as she went, without a word to anyone, straight into the side room, grabbed her things, and left the place "forever," as she passionately told herself. She was in a very upset state when she got home, and when the older girls arrived, some time later, an outrage meeting was held immediately. Mrs. March did not say much but looked troubled, and comforted her hurt little daughter in her kindest manner. Meg bathed the insulted hand with lotion and tears, Beth felt that even her beloved kittens would not be enough comfort for troubles like this, Jo angrily suggested that Mr. Davis be arrested without delay, and Hannah shook her fist at the 'villain' and pounded potatoes for dinner as if she had him under her pestle.

No notice was taken of Amy's departure, except by her classmates, but the sharp-eyed young ladies noticed that Mr. Davis was quite pleasant in the afternoon, and also unusually nervous. Just before school ended, Jo appeared, wearing a grim expression as she walked up to the desk, and handed over a letter from her mother, then collected Amy's belongings, and left, carefully wiping the mud from her boots on the doormat, as if she were removing the dust of the place from her feet.

"Yes, you can have time off from school, but I want you to study a little every day with Beth," said Mrs. March that evening. "I don't agree with physical punishment, especially for girls. I dislike Mr. Davis's teaching style and don't think the girls you spend time with are doing you any good, so I shall ask your father's advice before I send you anywhere else."

"That's good! I wish all the girls would leave, and ruin his old school. It's absolutely painful to think of those lovely limes," sighed Amy, with the air of a person who has suffered greatly.

"I am not sorry you lost them, because you broke the rules, and deserved some punishment for disobeying," was the firm reply, which rather disappointed the young lady, who expected nothing but sympathy.

"Do you mean you are glad I was shamed in front of the whole school?" cried Amy.

"I should not have chosen that way of correcting a fault," replied her mother, "but I'm not sure that it won't do you more good than a gentler method. You are becoming rather conceited, my dear, and it is quite time you set about fixing it. You have a good many small gifts and virtues, but there is no need to show them off, because conceit spoils the finest talent. There is not much danger that real talent or goodness will be overlooked for long, even if it is, the knowledge of having and using it well should be enough, and the great charm of all ability is modesty."

"So it is!" cried Laurie, who was playing chess in a corner with Jo. "I knew a girl once, who had a truly remarkable talent for music, and she didn't know it, never guessed what sweet little things she created when she was alone, and wouldn't have believed it if anyone had told her."

"I wish I'd known that nice girl. Maybe she would have helped me, I'm so slow," said Beth, who stood beside him, listening eagerly.

"You do know her, and she helps you better than anyone else could," answered Laurie, looking at her with such a playful meaning in his cheerful dark eyes that Beth suddenly turned very red, and hid her face in the sofa cushion, quite overcome by such an unexpected discovery.

Jo let Laurie win the game in return for that praise of her Beth, who could not be convinced to play for them after her compliment. So Laurie did his best, and sang beautifully, being in a particularly cheerful mood, because to the Marches he rarely showed the gloomy side of his character. When he was gone, Amy, who had been thoughtful all evening, said suddenly, as if busy with some new idea, "Is Laurie an accomplished boy?"

"Yes, he has had an excellent education, and has much talent. He will make a fine man, if not spoiled by too much attention," replied her mother.

"And he isn't conceited, is he?" asked Amy.

"Not in the least. That is why he is so charming and we all like him so much."

"I see. It's nice to have skills and be refined, but not to show off or become proud," said Amy thoughtfully.

"These things are always seen and felt in a person's manner and conversation, if used modestly, but it is not necessary to display them," said Mrs. March.

"Any more than it's right to wear all your hats and dresses and ribbons at once, so people may know you have them," added Jo, and the lesson ended in laughter.
