

    "Girls, where are you going?" asked Amy, coming into their room one Saturday afternoon, and finding them getting ready to go out with an air of secrecy which made her curious.

"Never mind. Little girls shouldn't ask questions," returned Jo sharply.

Now if there is anything embarrassing to our feelings when we are young, it is to be told that, and to be told to "run away, dear" is even harder to accept. Amy felt offended at this insult, and decided to find out the secret, even if she had to ask for an hour. Turning to Meg, who never refused her anything for very long, she said in a sweet tone, "Do tell me! I should think you might let me go too, because Beth is busy with her piano, and I haven't got anything to do, and I'm so lonely."

"I can't, dear, because you aren't invited," began Meg, but Jo interrupted impatiently, "Now, Meg, be quiet or you will ruin everything. You can't come, Amy, so don't behave like a baby and whine about it."

"You are going somewhere with Laurie, I know you are. You were whispering and laughing together on the sofa last night, and you stopped when I came in. Aren't you going with him?"

"Yes, we are. Now please be quiet, and stop bothering."

Amy said nothing, but watched carefully, and saw Meg slip a fan into her pocket.

"I know! I know! You're going to the theater to see the Seven Castles!" she cried, adding firmly, "and I shall go, because Mother said I might see it, and I have my spending money, and it was mean not to tell me in time."

"Just listen to me for a minute, and be a good child," said Meg in a calm tone. "Mother doesn't want you to go this week, because your eyes are not well enough yet to handle the bright light of this magical show. Next week you can go with Beth and Hannah, and have a nice time."

"I don't like that nearly as much as going with you and Laurie. Please let me come. I've been sick with this cold for so long, and shut up inside, I'm desperate for some fun. Do, Meg! I'll be very good," pleaded Amy, looking as sad as she could.

"Suppose we take her. I don't think Mother would mind, if we wrap her up well," began Meg.

"If she comes I shan't go, and if I don't go, Laurie won't like it, and it will be very rude, after he invited only us, to go and bring Amy along. I should think she'd hate to push herself where she isn't wanted," said Jo irritably, because she disliked the trouble of watching over a fidgety child when she wanted to enjoy herself.

Her tone and manner upset Amy, who began to put her boots on, saying, in her most provoking way, "I shall go. Meg says I may, and if I pay for myself, Laurie has nothing to do with it."

"You can't sit with us, because our seats are reserved, and you shouldn't sit alone, so Laurie will give you his seat, and that will ruin our enjoyment. Or he'll get another seat for you, and that isn't proper when you weren't invited. You are not moving a step, so you may just stay where you are," scolded Jo, more irritable than ever, having just pricked her finger in her hurry.

Sitting on the floor with one boot on, Amy began to cry and Meg began to try to reason with her, when Laurie called from below, and the two girls hurried down, leaving their sister crying. Because now and then she forgot her grown-up ways and behaved like a spoiled child. Just as the group was leaving, Amy called over the stair rail in a threatening tone, "You'll be sorry for this, Jo March, you'll see."

"Nonsense!" returned Jo, closing the door.

They had a wonderful time, because The Seven Castles Of The Diamond Lake was as brilliant and magical as anyone could wish. But in spite of the funny red imps, sparkling fairies, and the gorgeous princes and princesses, Jo's pleasure had a drop of bitterness in it. The fairy queen's yellow curls reminded her of Amy, and between the acts she kept herself busy wondering what her sister would do to make her 'sorry for it'. She and Amy had had many lively arguments during their lives, because both had quick tempers and were likely to become very upset when truly angry. Amy bothered Jo, and Jo irritated Amy, and occasional explosions occurred, of which both were quite ashamed afterward. Although the oldest, Jo had the least self-control, and had hard times trying to hold back the fiery temper which was constantly getting her into trouble. Her anger never lasted long, and having humbly admitted her fault, she was truly sorry and tried to do better. Her sisters used to say that they rather liked to get Jo into a rage because she was such a wonderful person afterward. Poor Jo tried hard to be good, but her inner enemy was always ready to flare up and defeat her, and it took years of patient effort to overcome it.

When they got home, they found Amy reading in the sitting room. She put on an injured manner as they came in, never lifted her eyes from her book, or asked a single question. Perhaps curiosity might have overcome resentment, if Beth had not been there to ask about the play and receive a detailed description of it. On going up to put away her best hat, Jo's first look was toward the dresser, because in their last quarrel Amy had expressed her feelings by emptying Jo's top drawer onto the floor. Everything was in its place, however, and after a quick look into her various closets, bags, and boxes, Jo decided that Amy had forgiven and forgotten her wrongs.

There Jo was mistaken, because next day she made a discovery which caused a storm. Meg, Beth, and Amy were sitting together, late in the afternoon, when Jo burst into the room, looking excited and asking breathlessly, "Has anyone taken my book?"

Meg and Beth said, "No." at once, and looked surprised. Amy poked the fire and said nothing. Jo saw her face go red and was beside her immediately.

"Amy, you've got it!"

"No, I haven't."

"You know where it is, then!"

"No, I don't."

"That's a lie!" cried Jo, grabbing her by the shoulders, and looking fierce enough to frighten a much braver child than Amy.

"It isn't. I haven't got it, I don't know where it is now, and I don't care."

"You know something about it, and you'd better tell me at once, or I'll make you." And Jo gave her a small shake.

"Scold as much as you like, you'll never see your silly old book again," cried Amy, becoming upset in her turn.

"Why not?"

"I burned it up."

"What! My little book that I was so fond of, and worked over, and meant to finish before Father got home? Have you really burned it?" said Jo, turning very pale, while her eyes blazed and her hands gripped Amy nervously.

"Yes, I did! I told you I'd make you pay for being so mean yesterday, and I have, so..."

Amy got no further, because Jo's hot temper took over, and she shook Amy until her teeth chattered, crying in a burst of grief and anger...

"You wicked, wicked girl! I can never write it again, and I'll never forgive you as long as I live."

Meg rushed to rescue Amy, and Beth tried to calm Jo, but Jo was quite out of control, and with a final push, she rushed out of the room up to the old sofa in the attic, and finished her upset alone.

The storm calmed down downstairs, because Mrs. March came home, and, having heard the story, soon brought Amy to understand the wrong she had done her sister. Jo's book was the pride of her heart, and was regarded by her family as a promising piece of writing. It was only half a dozen little fairy tales, but Jo had worked over them patiently, putting her whole heart into her work, hoping to make something good enough to print. She had just copied them with great care, and had thrown away the old rough version, so that Amy's fire had burned the loving work of several years. It seemed a small loss to others, but to Jo it was a terrible disaster, and she felt that it could never be made up to her. Beth mourned as for a lost kitten, and Meg refused to defend her favorite. Mrs. March looked serious and sad, and Amy felt that no one would love her until she had asked forgiveness for the action which she now regretted more than any of them.

When the tea bell rang, Jo appeared, looking so grim and unapproachable that it took all Amy's courage to say quietly...

"Please forgive me, Jo. I'm very, very sorry."

"I shall never forgive you," was Jo's firm answer, and from that moment she ignored Amy completely.

No one spoke of the great trouble, not even Mrs. March, because all had learned from experience that when Jo was in that state words were useless, and the wisest thing was to wait until some little accident, or her own generous nature, softened Jo's anger and healed the rift. It was not a happy evening, because though they sewed as usual, while their mother read aloud, something was missing, and the sweet home peace was disturbed. They felt this most when singing time came, because Beth could only play, Jo stood silent as a stone, and Amy broke down, so Meg and Mother sang alone. But in spite of their efforts to be as cheerful as possible, the melodious voices did not seem to sound as well as usual, and all felt unhappy.

As Jo received her goodnight kiss, Mrs. March whispered gently, "My dear, don't let the sun go down on your anger. Forgive each other, help each other, and begin again tomorrow."

Jo wanted to lay her head down on that motherly chest, and cry her grief and anger all away, but tears were a weakness she didn't like to show, and she felt so deeply hurt that she really couldn't quite forgive yet. So she blinked hard, shook her head, and said gruffly because Amy was listening, "It was a horrible thing, and she doesn't deserve to be forgiven."

With that she went off to bed, and there was no cheerful or private conversation that night.

Amy was very hurt that her attempts at making peace had been rejected, and began to wish she had not lowered herself to ask, to feel more wronged than ever, and to feel proud of her superior behavior in a way that was particularly irritating. Jo still looked like a storm cloud, and nothing went well all day. It was bitterly cold in the morning, she dropped her precious warm pie in the gutter, Aunt March was particularly difficult, Meg was sensitive, Beth would look sad and troubled when she got home, and Amy kept making remarks about people who were always talking about being good and yet wouldn't even try when others set them a good example.

"Everyone is so hateful, I'll ask Laurie to go skating. He is always kind and cheerful, and will cheer me up, I know," said Jo to herself, and off she went.

Amy heard the sound of skates, and looked out with an impatient exclamation.

"There! She promised I should go next time, because this is the last ice we shall have. But it's no use to ask such a difficult person to take me."

"Don't say that. You were very naughty, and it is hard to forgive the loss of her precious little book, but I think she might do it now, and I believe she will, if you approach her at the right moment," said Meg. "Go after them. Don't say anything until Jo has been cheered up by Laurie, then find a quiet moment and just kiss her, or do some kind thing, and I'm sure she'll be friends again with all her heart."

"I'll try," said Amy, because the advice suited her, and after quickly getting ready, she ran after the friends, who were just disappearing over the hill.

It was not far to the river, but both were ready before Amy reached them. Jo saw her coming, and turned her back. Laurie did not see her, because he was carefully skating along the shore, testing the ice, as a warm period had come before the cold snap.

"I'll go to the first bend, and see if it's all right before we begin to race," Amy heard him say, as he shot away, looking like a young Russian in his fur-trimmed coat and hat.

Jo heard Amy hurrying after her from her run, stamping her feet and blowing on her fingers as she tried to put her skates on, but Jo never turned and went slowly zigzagging down the river, taking a bitter, unhappy kind of satisfaction in her sister's difficulties. She had kept her anger until it grew strong and took control of her, as bad thoughts and feelings always do unless they are let go at once. As Laurie turned the bend, he called back...

"Keep near the shore. It isn't safe in the middle." Jo heard, but Amy was struggling to her feet and did not catch a single word. Jo glanced over her shoulder, and the bad feeling she was holding onto said in her ear...

"No matter whether she heard or not, let her take care of herself."

Laurie had gone around the bend, Jo was just at the turn, and Amy, far behind, skating out toward the smoother ice in the middle of the river. For a moment Jo stood still with a strange feeling in her heart, then she decided to go on, but something stopped her and turned her around, just in time to see Amy throw up her hands and fall through, with a sudden crash of thin ice, the splash of water, and a cry that made Jo's heart stop with fear. She tried to call Laurie, but her voice was gone. She tried to rush forward, but her feet seemed to have no strength in them, and for a second, she could only stand still, staring with a terrified face at the little blue hood above the dark water. Something rushed swiftly past her, and Laurie's voice cried out...

"Bring a rail. Quick, quick!"

How she did it, she never knew, but for the next few minutes she worked as if driven, blindly following Laurie's instructions, who was quite calm, and lying flat, held Amy up by his arm and hockey stick until Jo dragged a fence rail over, and together they got the child out, more frightened than hurt.

"Now then, we must walk her home as fast as we can. Put our coats on her, while I get off these confounded skates," cried Laurie, wrapping his coat around Amy, and struggling with the straps which never seemed so difficult before.

Shaking, wet, and crying, they got Amy home, and after an exciting time of it, she fell asleep, wrapped in blankets before a hot fire. During the commotion Jo had barely spoken but had moved quickly, looking pale and wild, with her things half off, her dress torn, and her hands cut and bruised by ice and rails and difficult clasps. When Amy was comfortably asleep, the house quiet, and Mrs. March sitting by the bed, she called Jo to her and began to bandage the hurt hands.

"Are you sure she is safe?" whispered Jo, looking remorsefully at the golden head, which might have been swept away from her sight forever under the dangerous ice.

"Quite safe, dear. She is not hurt, and won't even catch a cold, I think, you were so sensible in covering her and getting her home quickly," replied her mother cheerfully.

"Laurie did it all. I only let her go. Mother, if she should die, it would be my fault." And Jo sank down beside the bed in an outburst of sorry tears, telling everything that had happened, bitterly blaming herself for being so hardhearted, and crying out her gratitude for being spared the terrible punishment which might have come upon her.

"It's my dreadful temper! I try to fix it, I think I have, and then it breaks out worse than ever. Oh, Mother, what shall I do? What shall I do?" cried poor Jo, in despair.

"Watch and pray, dear, never get tired of trying, and never think it is impossible to overcome your fault," said Mrs. March, drawing the untidy head to her shoulder and kissing the wet cheek so tenderly that Jo cried even harder.

"You don't know, you can't imagine how bad it is! It seems as if I could do anything when I'm in a rage. I get so furious, I could hurt anyone and enjoy it. I'm afraid I shall do something terrible someday, and ruin my life, and make everybody hate me. Oh, Mother, help me, please help me!"

"I will, my child, I will. Don't cry so bitterly, but remember this day, and decide with all your heart that you will never know another like it. Jo, dear, we all have our struggles, some far greater than yours, and it often takes us all our lives to overcome them. You think your temper is the worst in the world, but mine used to be just like it."

"Yours, Mother? Why, you are never angry!" And for the moment Jo forgot her regret in surprise.

"I've been trying to fix it for forty years, and have only managed to control it. I am angry nearly every day of my life, Jo, but I have learned not to show it, and I still hope to learn not to feel it, though it may take me another forty years to do so."

The patience and the humility of the face she loved so well was a better lesson to Jo than the wisest lecture or the sharpest criticism. She felt comforted immediately by the sympathy and trust given her. The knowledge that her mother had a fault like hers, and tried to fix it, made her own easier to bear and strengthened her determination to overcome it, though forty years seemed rather a long time to watch and pray for a girl of fifteen.

"Mother, are you angry when you press your lips together and leave the room sometimes, when Aunt March scolds or people bother you?" asked Jo, feeling closer and dearer to her mother than ever before.

"Yes, I've learned to hold back the quick words that rise to my lips, and when I feel that they mean to come out against my will, I just go away for a minute, and give myself a little reminder for being so weak and wrong," answered Mrs. March with a sigh and a smile, as she smoothed and pinned up Jo's messy hair.

"How did you learn to stay quiet? That is what troubles me, because the sharp words fly out before I know what I'm doing, and the more I say the worse I get, until it's almost a pleasure to hurt people's feelings and say terrible things. Tell me how you do it, Marmee dear."

"My good mother used to help me..."

"As you do us..." interrupted Jo, with a grateful kiss.

"But I lost her when I was a little older than you are, and for years had to struggle on alone, because I was too proud to admit my weakness to anyone else. I had a hard time, Jo, and shed many bitter tears over my failures, because in spite of my efforts I never seemed to improve. Then your father came, and I was so happy that I found it easy to be good. But after a while, when I had four little daughters around me and we were poor, then the old trouble began again, because I am not patient by nature, and it was very hard for me to see my children wanting anything."

"Poor Mother! What helped you then?"

"Your father, Jo. He never loses patience, never doubts or complains, but always hopes, and works and waits so cheerfully that one is ashamed to do otherwise in his presence. He helped and comforted me, and showed me that I must try to practice all the qualities I would have my little girls possess, because I was their example. It was easier to try for your sakes than for my own. A startled or surprised look from one of you when I spoke sharply reminded me more than any words could have done, and the love, respect, and trust of my children was the sweetest reward I could receive for my efforts to be the woman I would have them copy."

"Oh, Mother, if I'm ever half as good as you, I shall be satisfied," cried Jo, very moved.

"I hope you will be a great deal better, dear, but you must watch over your inner enemy, as father calls it, or it may sadden, if not ruin, your life. You have had a warning. Remember it, and try with heart and soul to master this quick temper, before it brings you greater sorrow and regret than you have known today."

"I will try, Mother, I truly will. But you must help me, remind me, and keep me from losing control. I used to see Father sometimes put his finger on his lips, and look at you with a very kind but serious face, and you always pressed your lips together and went away. Was he reminding you then?" asked Jo quietly.

"Yes. I asked him to help me that way, and he never forgot it, but saved me from many a sharp word by that little gesture and kind look."

Jo saw that her mother's eyes filled and her lips trembled as she spoke, and fearing that she had said too much, she whispered anxiously, "Was it wrong to watch you and to speak of it? I didn't mean to be rude, but it's so comfortable to say all I think to you, and feel so safe and happy here."

"My Jo, you may say anything to your mother, because it is my greatest happiness and pride to feel that my girls trust me and know how much I love them."

"I thought I'd made you sad."

"No, dear, but speaking of Father reminded me how much I miss him, how much I owe him, and how faithfully I should watch and work to keep his little daughters safe and good for him."

"Yet you told him to go, Mother, and didn't cry when he went, and never complain now, or seem as if you needed any help," said Jo, wondering.

"I gave my best to the country I love, and kept my tears until he was gone. Why should I complain, when we both have simply done our duty and will surely be the happier for it in the end? If I don't seem to need help, it is because I have a better friend, even than Father, to comfort and support me. My child, the troubles and temptations of your life are beginning and may be many, but you can overcome and rise above them all if you learn to feel the strength and love of your Heavenly Father as you do that of your earthly one. The more you love and trust Him, the closer you will feel to Him, and the less you will need human strength and wisdom. His love and care never grow tired or change, can never be taken from you, but may become the source of lifelong peace, happiness, and strength. Believe this truly, and go to God with all your little worries, and hopes, and sins, and sorrows, as freely and trustingly as you come to your mother."

Jo's only answer was to hold her mother close, and in the silence which followed the most sincere prayer she had ever prayed left her heart without words. Because in that sad yet happy hour, she had learned not only the bitterness of regret and despair, but the sweetness of self-denial and self-control, and led by her mother's hand, she had drawn closer to the Friend who always welcomes every child with a love stronger than that of any father, gentler than that of any mother.

Amy stirred and sighed in her sleep, and as if eager to begin right away to correct her fault, Jo looked up with an expression on her face which it had never worn before.

"I let the sun go down on my anger. I wouldn't forgive her, and today, if it hadn't been for Laurie, it might have been too late! How could I have been so wicked?" said Jo, half aloud, as she leaned over her sister softly stroking the wet hair scattered on the pillow.

As if she heard, Amy opened her eyes, and held out her arms, with a smile that went straight to Jo's heart. Neither said a word, but they hugged each other tightly, in spite of the blankets, and everything was forgiven and forgotten in one heartfelt kiss.
