
    While this was happening, the wolf ran straight to the grandmother's house and knocked on the door.

'Who is there?'

'Little Red-Cap,' replied the wolf. 'She is bringing cake and wine; open the door.'

'Lift the latch,' called out the grandmother, 'I am too weak, and cannot get up.'

The wolf lifted the latch, the door opened quickly, and without saying a word he went straight to the grandmother's bed, and ate her up. Then he put on her clothes, dressed himself in her cap, lay down in the bed and pulled the curtains closed.

Little Red-Cap, however, had been running around picking flowers, and when she had gathered so many that she could not carry any more, she remembered her grandmother, and started walking to her house.

She was surprised to see the front door open, and when she went into the room, she had a very strange feeling and said to herself: 'Oh dear! I feel so uneasy today, and usually I love being with grandmother so much.' She called out: 'Good morning,' but got no answer; so she went to the bed and pulled back the curtains. There lay her grandmother with her cap pulled far down over her face, and she looked very strange.

'Oh! grandmother,' she said, 'what big ears you have!'

'The better to hear you with, my child,' was the reply.

'But, grandmother, what big eyes you have!' she said.

'The better to see you with, my dear.'

'But, grandmother, what large hands you have!'

'The better to hug you with.'

'Oh! but, grandmother, what a terribly big mouth you have!'

'The better to eat you with!'

And almost before the wolf had finished saying this, he jumped out of the bed and swallowed Red-Cap up.

When the wolf had eaten enough, he lay down again in the bed, fell asleep and began to snore very loudly. A huntsman was just walking past the house, and thought to himself: 'How loudly that old woman is snoring! I should check if she needs any help.' So he went into the room, and when he reached the bed, he saw that the wolf was lying in it. 'I found you here, you old sinner!' said he. 'I have been looking for you for a long time!' Then just as he was about to shoot him, he thought that the wolf might have eaten the grandmother, and that she might still be saved, so he did not shoot, but took a pair of scissors, and started to cut open the stomach of the sleeping wolf. When he had made two cuts, he saw Little Red-Cap's bright clothing, and then he made two more cuts, and the little girl jumped out, crying: 'Oh, I was so frightened! It was so dark inside the wolf'; and after that the old grandmother came out alive too, but she could hardly breathe. Red-Cap quickly went and got large stones, and they filled the wolf's stomach with them, and when he woke up, he tried to run away, but the stones were so heavy that he fell down at once, and died.
    