
      
    Once upon a time there was a poor woman who had only one son named Jack, and a cow named Milky-white. All they had to live on was the milk the cow gave every morning, which they carried to the market and sold. But one morning Milky-white gave no milk, and they did not know what to do.

"What shall we do, what shall we do?" said the woman, very worried.
"Don't worry, mother, I'll go and find work somewhere," said Jack.
"We've tried that before, and nobody would take you," said his mother. "We must sell Milky-white and use the money to do something, open a shop, or something like that."
"All right, mother," said Jack. "Today is market day, and I'll sell Milky-white quickly, and then we'll see what we can do."

So he took the cow's rope in his hand and started walking. He had not gone far when he met a strange-looking old man who said to him: "Good morning, Jack."
"Good morning to you," said Jack, and he wondered how the man knew his name.
"Well, Jack, and where are you going?" said the man.
"I'm going to the market to sell our cow."
"Oh, you look like just the right person to sell cows," said the man. "I wonder if you know how many beans make five."
"Two in each hand and one in your mouth," said Jack, quick as a flash.
"That's right," said the man, "and here are the very beans themselves," he went on, pulling a number of strange-looking beans out of his pocket. "Since you are so clever," said he, "I don't mind doing a deal with you — your cow for these beans."
"No way!" said Jack. "Do you really think I would?"
"Ah! You don't know what these beans are," said the man. "If you plant them at night, by morning they will grow all the way up to the sky."
"Really?" said Jack. "You don't say so."
"Yes, that is true, and if it is not, you can have your cow back."
"All right," said Jack, and he handed over Milky-white's rope and put the beans in his pocket.

Jack went back home, and since he had not gone very far, it was not yet evening when he got to his door.
"You're back already, Jack?" said his mother. "I can see you don't have Milky-white, so you've sold her. How much did you get for her?"
"You'll never guess, mother," said Jack.
"No, really? Good boy! Five pounds, ten, fifteen — no, it can't be twenty."
"I told you that you couldn't guess. What do you think of these beans? They're magical — plant them at night and——"
"What!" said Jack's mother. "Have you been such a fool, so silly, as to give away my Milky-white, the best milk-giving cow in the area, and good meat too, for a bunch of useless beans? Take that! Take that! Take that! And as for your precious beans, out of the window they go. And now get up to bed. You will not eat or drink anything tonight."

So Jack went upstairs to his little room in the attic, feeling sad and sorry, as much for his mother's sake as for missing his supper. At last he fell asleep.
    
    
    