
    
      So one fine morning he got up early, went to the beanstalk, and he climbed and he climbed and he climbed and he climbed and he climbed and he climbed until at last he got back on the road again and came to the very big tall house he had been to before. And sure enough, there was the very big tall woman standing on the doorstep.

"Good morning, ma'am," said Jack bravely. "Could you be so kind as to give me something to eat?"
"Go away, my boy," said the big tall woman, "or else my husband will eat you up for breakfast. But aren't you the boy who came here once before? You know, on that very day, my husband noticed that one of his bags of gold was missing."
"How strange, ma'am," said Jack. "I think I could tell you something about that, but I am so hungry I cannot speak until I have had something to eat."

Well, the big tall woman was so interested that she took him in and gave him something to eat. But he had only just started eating as slowly as he could when thump! thump! thump! they heard the giant's footsteps, and his wife hid Jack in the oven.

Everything happened just as it did before. In came the ogre as before, said "Fee-fi-fo-fum," and had his breakfast of three cooked cows. Then he said: "Wife, bring me the hen that lays the golden eggs." So she brought it, and the ogre said: "Lay," and it laid an egg of solid gold. And then the ogre's head began to nod, and he started to snore so loudly that the house shook.

Then Jack crept out of the oven on his tiptoes, grabbed the golden hen, and moved very quickly toward the door. But this time the hen made a loud noise which woke the ogre, and just as Jack got out of the house he heard the ogre calling: "Wife, wife, what have you done with my golden hen?"
And the wife said: "Why, my dear?"

But that was all Jack heard, because he rushed off to the beanstalk and climbed down as fast as he could. And when he got home he showed his mother the wonderful hen and said "Lay" to it, and it laid a golden egg every time he said "Lay."
     