
    
      Well, Jack was still not satisfied, and it was not very long before he wanted to try again at the top of the beanstalk. So one fine morning he got up early, went to the beanstalk, and he climbed and he climbed and he climbed and he climbed until he got to the top. But this time he was smarter than to go straight to the ogre's house. When he got near it he hid behind a bush until he saw the ogre's wife come out with a bucket to get some water, and then he crept into the house and hid inside the big pot. He had not been there long when he heard thump! thump! thump! as before, and in came the ogre and his wife.

"Fee-fi-fo-fum, I smell the blood of an Englishman," cried the ogre. "I smell him, wife, I smell him."
"Do you, my dear?" said the ogre's wife. "Then if it's that little thief who stole your gold and the hen that laid the golden eggs, he's sure to have hidden in the oven." And they both rushed to the oven. But Jack was not there, luckily, and the ogre's wife said: "There you go again with your fee-fi-fo-fum. Why, of course it's the boy you caught last night that I've cooked for your breakfast. How forgetful I am, and how careless you are not to tell the difference between a live one and a dead one."

So the ogre sat down to his breakfast and ate it, but every now and then he would mutter: "Well, I was sure——" and he would get up and search the cupboards and everything else, but luckily he did not think of looking in the big pot.

After breakfast was over, the ogre called out: "Wife, wife, bring me my golden harp." So she brought it and put it on the table in front of him. Then he said: "Sing!" and the golden harp sang most beautifully. And it kept on singing until the ogre fell asleep and started to snore very loudly.

Then Jack quietly lifted the lid of the big pot, climbed out as quietly as a mouse, and crawled carefully until he reached the table. He stood up, grabbed the golden harp, and ran toward the door. But the harp called out loudly: "Master! Master!" and the ogre woke up just in time to see Jack running away with his harp.

Jack ran as fast as he could, and the ogre came rushing after him. The ogre would have caught him, but Jack had a head start and knew where he was going. When he reached the beanstalk the ogre was no more than twenty meters away, and then he suddenly saw Jack disappear downward. When the ogre got to the end of the road he could see Jack far below, climbing down very fast. The ogre was afraid to use the beanstalk as a ladder, so he stood and waited, which gave Jack more time. But just then the harp cried out: "Master! Master!" and the ogre climbed onto the beanstalk, which shook under his weight. Down climbed Jack, and after him climbed the ogre. By this time Jack had climbed down and climbed down and climbed down until he was nearly home. So he called out: "Mother! Mother! Bring me an axe, bring me an axe." And his mother came running out with the axe in her hand, but when she came to the beanstalk she stopped in fear, because she could see the ogre just coming down below the clouds.

But Jack jumped down, grabbed the axe, and gave the beanstalk a hard hit which cut it halfway through. The ogre felt the beanstalk shake, so he stopped to see what was happening. Then Jack gave it another hard hit with the axe, and the beanstalk was cut all the way through and began to fall. The ogre fell down and died, and the beanstalk came crashing down after him.

Then Jack showed his mother the golden harp, and between showing the harp and selling the golden eggs, Jack and his mother became very rich. He married a wonderful princess, and they all lived happily ever after.
     
    