TUESDAY afternoon came, and faded into evening. The village of St. Petersburg still grieved. The lost children had not been found. Prayers had been said publicly for them, and many private prayers too, spoken from the whole heart; but still no good news came from the cave. Most of the searchers had given up and gone back to their daily work, saying that it was clear the children could never be found. Mrs. Thatcher was very ill, and much of the time confused. People said it was sad to hear her call her child's name, and raise her head and listen for a whole minute at a time, then lay it back down tiredly with a moan of pain. Aunt Polly had sunk into deep sadness, and her gray hair had grown almost white. The village went to its rest on Tuesday night, sad and hopeless. Deep in the night, wild ringing from the village bells burst out, and in a moment the streets were filled with half-dressed people shouting, "Come out! come out! They're found! they're found!" Tin pans and horns were added to the noise, the people gathered and moved toward the river, met the children coming in an open carriage pulled by cheering townspeople, crowded around it, joined its journey home, and swept grandly up the main street letting out cheer after cheer! The village was lit up; nobody went to bed again; it was the greatest night the little town had ever seen. During the first half hour a long line of villagers walked through Judge Thatcher's house, grabbed the rescued ones and kissed them, squeezed Mrs. Thatcher's hand, tried to speak but couldn't -- and walked out crying everywhere. Aunt Polly's happiness was complete, and Mrs. Thatcher's nearly so. It would be complete, however, as soon as the messenger sent with the great news to the cave could reach her husband. Tom lay on a sofa with an eager audience around him and told the story of the wonderful adventure, adding many powerful details; and ended with a description of how he left Becky and went on an exploring trip; how he followed two tunnels as far as his string would reach; how he followed a third to the farthest stretch of the string, and was about to turn back when he noticed a far-off speck that looked like daylight; dropped the string and moved toward it, pushed his head and shoulders through a small hole, and saw the broad Mississippi rolling by! And if it had only happened to be night he would not have seen that speck of daylight and would not have explored that passage any more! He described how he went back for Becky and told her the good news and she told him not to bother her with such nonsense, for she was tired, and knew she was going to die, and wanted to. He described how he worked with her and convinced her; and how she almost fainted with joy when she actually saw the blue speck of daylight; how he pushed his way out at the hole and then helped her out; how they sat there and cried with happiness; how some men came along in a small boat and Tom called out to them and told them their situation and their starving condition; how the men didn't believe the wild story at first, "because," they said, "you are five miles down the river below the valley the cave is in" -- then took them on board, rowed to a house, gave them supper, let them rest until two or three hours after dark and then brought them home. Before daybreak, Judge Thatcher and the handful of searchers with him were found in the cave, guided by the string they had left behind them, and told the great news. Three days and nights of hard work and hunger in the cave were not something one could recover from quickly, as Tom and Becky soon discovered. They were sick in bed all of Wednesday and Thursday, and seemed to grow more and more tired and weak all the time. Tom got about a little on Thursday, was moving around town on Friday, and nearly as well as ever on Saturday; but Becky did not leave her room until Sunday, and then she looked as if she had been through a very serious illness. Tom learned of Huck's sickness and went to see him on Friday, but could not be let into the bedroom; neither could he on Saturday or Sunday. He was admitted daily after that, but was warned to stay calm and not introduce any exciting subject. The Widow Douglas stayed nearby to make sure he obeyed. At home Tom learned of the Cardiff Hill event; also that the "ragged man's" body had finally been found in the river near the ferry landing; he had drowned while trying to escape, perhaps. About two weeks after Tom's rescue from the cave, he went to visit Huck, who was now strong enough to hear exciting talk, and Tom had something that would interest him, he thought. Judge Thatcher's house was on Tom's way, and he stopped to see Becky. The Judge and some friends got Tom to talking, and someone asked him teasingly if he wouldn't like to go to the cave again. Tom said he thought he wouldn't mind it. The Judge said: "Well, there are others just like you, Tom, I have no doubt. But we have taken care of that. Nobody will get lost in that cave anymore." "Why?" "Because I had its large door covered with boiler iron two weeks ago, and locked three times -- and I've got the keys." Tom turned extremely pale. "What's the matter, boy! Here, someone run and get a glass of water!" The water was brought and thrown in Tom's face. "Ah, now you're all right. What was the matter with you, Tom?" "Oh, Judge, Injun Joe's in the cave!"