THE sun rose upon a calm world, and shone down upon the peaceful village like a blessing. Breakfast over, Aunt Polly had family worship: it began with a prayer built entirely of Bible sayings, joined together with a thin layer of her own thoughts; and after this she delivered a strict chapter from the Laws of Moses, as if speaking from a mountain.

Then Tom prepared himself, so to speak, and went to work to "learn his Bible verses." Sid had learned his lesson days before. Tom put all his effort into memorizing five verses, and he chose part of the Sermon on the Mount, because he could find no verses that were shorter. At the end of half an hour Tom had a general, unclear idea of his lesson, but no more, for his mind was wandering through the whole field of human thought, and his hands were busy with distracting games. Mary took his book to hear him recite, and he tried to find his way through the confusion:

"Blessed are the -- a -- a --"

"Poor" --

"Yes -- poor; blessed are the poor -- a -- a --"

"In spirit --"

"In spirit; blessed are the poor in spirit, for they -- they --"

"THEIRS --"

"For THEIRS. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they -- they --"

"Sh --"

"For they -- a --"

"S, H, A --"

"For they S, H -- Oh, I don't know what it is!"

"SHALL!"

"Oh, SHALL! for they shall -- for they shall -- a -- a -- shall mourn -- a -- a -- blessed are they that shall -- they that -- a -- they that shall mourn, for they shall -- a -- shall WHAT? Why don't you tell me, Mary? -- why do you want to be so mean?"

"Oh, Tom, you poor thing, I'm not teasing you. I would never do that. You must go and learn it again. Don't be sad, Tom, you'll manage it -- and if you do, I'll give you something very nice. There, now, that's a good boy."

"All right! What is it, Mary, tell me what it is."

"Never mind, Tom. You know if I say it's nice, it is nice."

"You can be sure that's true, Mary. All right, I'll try it again."

And he did "try it again" -- and under the double pressure of wanting to know and the hope of a reward he did it with such effort that he succeeded brilliantly. Mary gave him a brand-new "Barlow" knife worth twelve and a half cents; and the fit of joy that swept through his body shook him to his core. True, the knife would not cut anything, but it was a "real" Barlow, and there was incredible importance in that -- though where the Western boys ever got the idea that such a weapon could possibly be copied to its harm is a great mystery and will perhaps always remain so. Tom managed to make scratches on the cupboard with it, and was planning to start on the bureau, when he was called to dress for Sunday school.

Mary gave him a tin basin of water and a piece of soap, and he went outside the door and set the basin on a little bench there; then he dipped the soap in the water and laid it down; turned up his sleeves; poured out the water on the ground, gently, and then entered the kitchen and began to wipe his face carefully on the towel behind the door. But Mary removed the towel and said:

"Now aren't you ashamed, Tom. You mustn't be so bad. Water won't hurt you."

Tom was a little thrown off. The basin was refilled, and this time he stood over it a little while, gathering courage; took a big breath and began. When he entered the kitchen soon after, with both eyes shut and feeling for the towel with his hands, an honest sign of soap and water was dripping from his face. But when he came out from the towel, he was not yet satisfactory, for the clean area stopped short at his chin and his jaws, like a mask; below and beyond this line there was a dark area of unwashed dirt that spread downward in front and backward around his neck. Mary took charge of him, and when she was done with him he was clean all over, and his wet hair was neatly brushed, and its short curls worked into a pretty and balanced general effect. [He quietly smoothed out the curls, with effort and difficulty, and stuck his hair flat against his head; for he thought curls were for girls, and his own filled his life with unhappiness.] Then Mary got out a suit of his clothing that had been used only on Sundays during two years -- they were simply called his "other clothes" -- and so by that we know how small his wardrobe was. The girl "fixed him up" after he had dressed himself; she buttoned his neat short coat up to his chin, turned his large shirt collar down over his shoulders, brushed him off and put his spotted straw hat on his head. He now looked very clean and uncomfortable. He was fully as uncomfortable as he looked; for there was a tight feeling about his good clothes and cleanliness that annoyed him. He hoped that Mary would forget his shoes, but the hope was crushed; she coated them thoroughly with animal fat, as was the usual way, and brought them out. He got angry and said he was always being made to do everything he didn't want to do. But Mary said, gently:

"Please, Tom -- that's a good boy."

So he put on the shoes grumbling. Mary was soon ready, and the three children set out for Sunday school -- a place that Tom hated with his whole heart; but Sid and Mary were fond of it.

Sunday school hours were from nine to half past ten; and then church service. Two of the children always stayed for the sermon willingly, and the other always stayed too -- for stronger reasons. The church's high-backed, hard pews would seat about three hundred people; the building was but a small, plain affair, with a sort of pine board box on top of it for a steeple. At the door Tom dropped back a step and spoke to a Sunday-dressed friend:

"Say, Billy, got a yellow ticket?"

"Yes."

"What'll you take for it?"

"What'll you give?"

"Piece of licorice and a fish hook."

"Let's see them."

Tom showed them. They were acceptable, and the trade was made. Then Tom traded a couple of white marbles for three red tickets, and some small worthless thing for a couple of blue ones. He stopped other boys as they came, and went on buying tickets of various colors for ten or fifteen minutes longer. He entered the church now, with a crowd of clean and noisy boys and girls, went to his seat and started an argument with the first boy that came nearby. The teacher, a serious, elderly man, stepped in; then turned his back for a moment and Tom pulled a boy's hair in the next bench, and was deep in his book when the boy turned around; then stuck a pin in another boy, to hear him say "Ouch!" and got a new scolding from his teacher. Tom's whole class were of a similar kind -- restless, noisy, and troublesome. When they came to recite their lessons, not one of them knew his verses completely, but had to be helped all the way through. However, they got through, and each got his reward -- in small blue tickets, each with a passage of Scripture on it; each blue ticket was pay for two verses of the lesson. Ten blue tickets equaled a red one, and could be exchanged for it; ten red tickets equaled a yellow one; for ten yellow tickets the superintendent gave a simply covered Bible (worth forty cents in those times) to the pupil. How many of my readers would have the hard work and focus to memorize two thousand verses, even for a Bible? And yet Mary had gained two Bibles in this way -- it was the patient work of two years -- and a boy of German parentage had won four or five. He once recited three thousand verses without stopping; but the strain upon his mind was too great, and he was almost like an idiot from that day forth -- a terrible event for the school, for on great occasions, before visitors, the superintendent had always made this boy come out and "show off his knowledge." Only the older pupils managed to keep their tickets and stick to their tiring work long enough to get a Bible, and so the delivery of one of these prizes was a rare and important occasion; the successful pupil was so great and notable for that day that on the spot every pupil's heart was fired with a fresh desire that often lasted a couple of weeks. It is possible that Tom's heart had never really wanted one of those prizes, but without a doubt his whole being had for many a day longed for the glory and the great feeling that came with it.

In time the superintendent stood up in front of the pulpit, with a closed hymn-book in his hand and his finger placed between its pages, and asked for attention. When a Sunday school superintendent makes his usual little speech, a hymn-book in the hand is as necessary as the expected sheet of music in the hand of a singer who stands forward on the platform and sings a solo at a concert -- though why, is a mystery: for neither the hymn-book nor the sheet of music is ever looked at by the speaker. This superintendent was a slim man of thirty-five, with a sandy small beard and short sandy hair; he wore a stiff standing collar whose upper edge almost reached his ears and whose sharp points curved forward in line with the corners of his mouth -- a collar that forced a straight look ahead, and a turning of the whole body when a side view was required; his chin was resting on a wide necktie that was as broad and as long as a banknote, and had fringed ends; his boot toes were turned sharply up, in the fashion of the day, like sled runners -- an effect patiently produced by the young men by sitting with their toes pressed against a wall for hours together. Mr. Walters was very serious in appearance, and very sincere and honest at heart; and he held sacred things and places in such great respect, and so separated them from everyday matters, that without knowing it his Sunday school voice had developed a peculiar tone which was entirely absent on weekdays. He began like this:

"Now, children, I want you all to sit up just as straight and nicely as you can and give me all your attention for a minute or two. There -- that is it. That is the way good little boys and girls should do. I see one little girl who is looking out of the window -- I am afraid she thinks I am out there somewhere -- perhaps up in one of the trees making a speech to the little birds. [A small sound of laughter.] I want to tell you how good it makes me feel to see so many bright, clean little faces gathered in a place like this, learning to do right and be good." And so on and so on. It is not necessary to write down the rest of the speech. It was of a type which does not change, and so it is familiar to us all.

The last third of the speech was ruined by the restart of fights and other misbehavior among certain of the bad boys, and by fidgeting and whispering that spread far and wide, reaching even to the farthest parts where the well-behaved children like Sid and Mary sat. But now every sound ceased suddenly, as Mr. Walters' voice fell quiet, and the end of the speech was received with a burst of silent relief.

A good part of the whispering had been caused by an event which was rather uncommon -- the arrival of visitors: Lawyer Thatcher, accompanied by a very frail and aged man; a fine, large, middle-aged gentleman with gray hair; and a respected lady who was doubtless the latter's wife. The lady was leading a child. Tom had been restless and full of complaints; feeling guilty too -- he could not meet Amy Lawrence's eye, he could not stand her loving gaze. But when he saw this small new arrival his heart was immediately filled with joy. The next moment he was "showing off" with all his might -- hitting boys, pulling hair, making faces -- in a word, using every skill that seemed likely to attract a girl and win her admiration. His great joy had but one flaw -- the memory of his embarrassment in this angel's garden -- and that memory was fast fading, under the waves of happiness that were sweeping over it now.

The visitors were given the places of greatest honor, and as soon as Mr. Walters' speech was finished, he introduced them to the school. The middle-aged man turned out to be a very important person -- no less than the county judge -- absolutely the most respected person these children had ever looked upon -- and they wondered what kind of person he was -- and they half wanted to hear him speak with authority, and were half afraid he might, too. He was from Constantinople, twelve miles away -- so he had traveled, and seen the world -- these very eyes had looked upon the county courthouse -- which was said to have a metal roof. The respect which these thoughts inspired was shown by the impressive silence and the rows of staring eyes. This was the great Judge Thatcher, brother of their own lawyer. Jeff Thatcher immediately went forward, to be friendly with the great man and be envied by the school. It would have been music to his soul to hear the whisperings:

"Look at him, Jim! He's going up there. Say -- look! he's going to shake hands with him -- he IS shaking hands with him! Wow, don't you wish you were Jeff?"

Mr. Walters fell to "showing off," with all sorts of busy activity, giving orders, making judgments, sending out instructions here, there, everywhere that he could find a reason. The librarian "showed off" -- running here and there with his arms full of books and making a great deal of noise and fuss that small authority loves. The young lady teachers "showed off" -- bending sweetly over pupils they had been scolding just moments before, lifting pretty warning fingers at bad little boys and patting good ones lovingly. The young gentlemen teachers "showed off" with small scoldings and other little displays of authority and great attention to rules -- and most of the teachers, of both sexes, found business up at the library, by the pulpit; and it was business that frequently had to be done over again two or three times. The little girls "showed off" in various ways, and the little boys "showed off" so hard that the air was thick with paper balls and the sound of small fights. And above it all the great man sat and beamed a grand, judge-like smile upon everyone in the house, and enjoyed the sunshine of his own greatness -- for he was "showing off," too.

There was only one thing wanting to make Mr. Walters' complete happiness perfect, and that was a chance to give out a Bible prize and create a special moment. Several pupils had a few yellow tickets, but none had enough -- he had been going around among the best pupils asking. He would have given anything, now, to have that German boy back again with a sound mind.

And now at this moment, when hope was dead, Tom Sawyer came forward with nine yellow tickets, nine red tickets, and ten blue ones, and asked for a Bible. This was a shocking surprise out of a clear sky. Walters was not expecting a request from this source for the next ten years. But there was no way around it -- here were the proper proofs, and they were clearly genuine. Tom was therefore given a place with the Judge and the other honored few, and the great news was announced to the school. It was the most astonishing surprise of the decade, and it raised the new hero up to the same level as the Judge, and the school had two amazing sights to look at in place of one. The boys were all consumed with envy -- but those who suffered the bitterest pain were those who realized too late that they themselves had helped to create this hated honor by trading tickets to Tom for the things he had collected by selling whitewashing turns. These boys hated themselves, as the tricked victims of a clever cheat, a cunning snake in the grass.

The prize was given to Tom with as much warmth of expression as the superintendent could force out under the circumstances; but it lacked the true sincere emotion, for the poor man's instincts told him that there was something suspicious here that could not bear close examination, perhaps; it was simply not possible that this boy had stored two thousand pieces of Scriptural knowledge in his head -- a dozen would reach his limit, without a doubt.

Amy Lawrence was proud and glad, and she tried to make Tom see it in her face -- but he wouldn't look. She wondered; then she was just a little troubled; next a faint suspicion came and went -- came again; she watched; a secret glance told her everything -- and then her heart broke, and she was jealous, and angry, and the tears came and she hated everybody. Tom most of all (she thought).

Tom was introduced to the Judge; but his tongue was stuck, his breath would hardly come, his heart shook with fear -- partly because of the great importance of the man, but mainly because he was her father. He would have liked to fall down and worship him, if it were in the dark. The Judge put his hand on Tom's head and called him a fine little man, and asked him what his name was. The boy stuttered, gasped, and got it out:

"Tom."

"Oh, no, not Tom -- it is --"

"Thomas."

"Ah, that's it. I thought there was more to it, maybe. That's very good. But you've another one I suppose, and you'll tell it to me, won't you?"

"Tell the gentleman your other name, Thomas," said Walters, "and say sir. You mustn't forget your manners."

"Thomas Sawyer -- sir."

"That's it! That's a good boy. Fine boy. Fine, strong little fellow. Two thousand verses is a great many -- very, very great many. And you will never be sorry for the trouble you took to learn them; for knowledge is worth more than anything there is in the world; it's what makes great men and good men; you'll be a great man and a good man yourself, some day, Thomas, and then you'll look back and say, It's all because of the precious Sunday school chances of my childhood -- it's all because of my dear teachers that taught me to learn -- it's all because of the good superintendent, who encouraged me, and watched over me, and gave me a beautiful Bible -- a splendid elegant Bible -- to keep and have it all for my own, always -- it's all because of good raising! That is what you will say, Thomas -- and you wouldn't take any money for those two thousand verses -- no indeed you wouldn't. And now you wouldn't mind telling me and this lady some of the things you've learned -- no, I know you wouldn't -- for we are proud of little boys that learn. Now, no doubt you know the names of all the twelve disciples. Won't you tell us the names of the first two that were chosen?"

Tom was pulling at a buttonhole and looking embarrassed. He blushed, now, and his eyes fell. Mr. Walters' heart sank. He said to himself, it is not possible that the boy can answer the simplest question -- why DID the Judge ask him? Yet he felt forced to speak up and say:

"Answer the gentleman, Thomas -- don't be afraid."

Tom still hesitated.

"Now I know you'll tell me," said the lady. "The names of the first two disciples were --"

"DAVID AND GOLIATH!"

Let us draw the covering of kindness over the rest of the scene.