THE two boys ran on and on toward the village, unable to speak from horror. They glanced backward over their shoulders from time to time, fearfully, as if they worried they might be followed. Every tree stump that appeared in their path seemed like a man and an enemy, and made them catch their breath; and as they sped by some cottages near the edge of the village, the barking of the awakened watchdogs seemed to give wings to their feet.

"If we can only get to the old tannery before we collapse!" whispered Tom, catching his breath between words. "I can't stand it much longer."

Huckleberry's heavy breathing was his only reply, and the boys fixed their eyes on their goal and worked hard to reach it. They gained on it steadily, and at last, side by side, they burst through the open door and fell thankful and exhausted in the dark shadows beyond. After a while their heartbeats slowed down, and Tom whispered:

"Huckleberry, what do you think will come of this?"

"If Doctor Robinson dies, I reckon hanging will come of it."

"Do you think so?"

"Why, I KNOW it, Tom."

Tom thought a while, then he said:

"Who'll tell? We?"

"What are you talking about? Suppose something happened and Injun Joe DIDN'T hang? Why, he'd kill us some time or other, just as certainly as we're lying here."

"That's just what I was thinking to myself, Huck."

"If anybody tells, let Muff Potter do it, if he's foolish enough. He's generally drunk enough."

Tom said nothing -- went on thinking. Soon he whispered:

"Huck, Muff Potter doesn't know it. How can he tell?"

"What do you mean he doesn't know it?"

"Because he'd just got that hard blow when Injun Joe did it. Do you reckon he could see anything? Do you reckon he knew anything?"

"By golly, that's right, Tom!"

"And besides, look here -- maybe that hard blow killed HIM!"

"No, it's not likely, Tom. He had drink in him; I could see that; and besides, he always does. Well, when my father's drunk, you might hit him over the head with a church and you couldn't hurt him. He says so himself. So it's the same with Muff Potter, of course. But if a man was completely sober, I reckon maybe that hard blow might kill him; I don't know."

After another thoughtful silence, Tom said:

"Hucky, are you sure you can keep quiet?"

"Tom, we HAVE to keep quiet. You know that. That dangerous devil wouldn't think twice about drowning us if we were to speak about this and they didn't hang him. Now, look here, Tom, let's swear to each other -- that's what we've got to do -- swear to keep quiet."

"I agree. It's the best thing. Would you just hold hands and swear that we --"

"Oh no, that wouldn't do for this. That's good enough for little worthless things -- especially with girls, because THEY go back on you anyway, and gossip if they get upset -- but there ought to be writing for a big thing like this. And blood."

Tom's whole being approved of this idea. It was deep, and dark, and serious; the hour, the circumstances, the surroundings, were all in keeping with it. He picked up a clean pine board that lay in the moonlight, took a little piece of "red chalk" out of his pocket, got the moonlight on his work, and with difficulty wrote these lines, pressing his tongue between his teeth with each slow downstroke, and releasing the pressure on the upstrokes. [See next page.]

"Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer swear they will keep quiet about This and They wish They may Drop down dead in Their Tracks if They ever Tell and Rot.

Huckleberry was filled with respect for Tom's skill in writing, and the greatness of his language. He at once took a pin from his jacket and was going to prick his flesh, but Tom said:

"Hold on! Don't do that. A pin's brass. It might have green poison on it."

"What's green poison?"

"It's poison. That's what it is. You just swallow some of it once -- you'll see."

So Tom took the thread from one of his needles, and each boy pricked the ball of his thumb and squeezed out a drop of blood. In time, after many squeezes, Tom managed to sign his initials, using the ball of his little finger as a pen. Then he showed Huckleberry how to make an H and an F, and the oath was complete. They buried the board close to the wall, with some sad words and magical chants, and the chains that bound their tongues were considered to be locked and the key thrown away.

A figure crept secretly through a break in the other end of the ruined building now, but they did not notice it.

"Tom," whispered Huckleberry, "does this keep us from EVER telling -- FOREVER?"

"Of course it does. It doesn't matter WHAT happens, we've got to keep quiet. We'd drop down dead -- don't YOU know that?"

"Yes, I reckon that's so."

They continued to whisper for some little time. Soon a dog set up a long, mournful howl just outside -- within ten feet of them. The boys held onto each other suddenly, in great fear.

"Which of us does he mean?" gasped Huckleberry.

"I don't know -- look through the crack. Quick!"

"No, YOU, Tom!"

"I can't -- I can't DO it, Huck!"

"Please, Tom. There it is again!"

"Oh, thank goodness!" whispered Tom. "I know his voice. It's Bull Harbison."

"Oh, that's good -- I tell you, Tom, I was almost scared to death; I'd have bet anything it was a stray dog."

The dog howled again. The boys' hearts sank once more.

"Oh, no! that isn't Bull Harbison!" whispered Huckleberry. "DO it, Tom!"

Tom, shaking with fear, gave in, and put his eye to the crack. His whisper was barely loud enough to hear when he said:

"Oh, Huck, IT'S A STRAY DOG!"

"Quick, Tom, quick! Who does he mean?"

"Huck, he must mean us both -- we're right together."

"Oh, Tom, I reckon we're dead men. I reckon there's no doubt about where I'LL end up. I've been so wicked."

"Darn it! This comes from playing hooky and doing everything a person's told NOT to do. I could have been good, like Sid, if I'd tried -- but no, I wouldn't, of course. But if I ever get off this time, I swear I'll just throw myself into Sunday schools!" And Tom began to sniffle a little.

"YOU bad!" and Huckleberry began to sniffle too. "Honestly, Tom Sawyer, you're as good as gold compared to me. Oh, LORDY, lordy, lordy, I wish I only had half your chance."

Tom calmed down and whispered:

"Look, Hucky, look! He's got his BACK to us!"

Hucky looked, with joy in his heart.

"Well, he has, by Jingo! Did he before?"

"Yes, he did. But I, like a fool, never thought about it. Oh, this is great. NOW who can he mean?"

The howling stopped. Tom listened carefully.

"Sh! What's that?" he whispered.

"Sounds like -- like hogs snoring. No -- it's somebody snoring, Tom."

"That IS it! Where is it, Huck?"

"I believe it's down at the other end. Sounds so, anyway. My father used to sleep there sometimes, along with the hogs, but goodness, he just shakes everything when HE snores. Besides, I reckon he isn't ever coming back to this town any more."

The spirit of adventure rose in the boys' hearts once more.

"Hucky, do you dare to go if I lead?"

"I don't like to much. Tom, what if it's Injun Joe!"

Tom hesitated. But soon the temptation rose up strong again and the boys agreed to try, with the understanding that they would run away if the snoring stopped. So they went walking carefully and quietly forward, the one behind the other. When they had got to within five steps of the snorer, Tom stepped on a stick, and it broke with a sharp snap. The man moaned, shifted a little, and his face came into the moonlight. It was Muff Potter. The boys' hearts had stood still, and their hopes too, when the man moved, but their fears passed away now. They walked quietly out through the broken boards, and stopped at a little distance to say a parting word. That long, mournful howl rose on the night air again! They turned and saw the stray dog standing within a few feet of where Potter was lying, and FACING Potter, with his nose pointing toward the sky.

"Oh, goodness, it's HIM!" exclaimed both boys, at the same time.

"Say, Tom -- they say a stray dog came howling around Johnny Miller's house, about midnight, as much as two weeks ago; and a bird came in and sat on the railing and sang, the very same evening; and there isn't anybody dead there yet."

"Well, I know that. And what of it? Didn't Gracie Miller fall in the kitchen fire and burn herself badly the very next Saturday?"

"Yes, but she isn't DEAD. And what's more, she's getting better, too."

"All right, you wait and see. She's going to die, just as surely as Muff Potter's going to die. That's what the old folks say, and they know all about these kinds of things, Huck."

Then they separated, thinking deeply. When Tom crept in at his bedroom window the night was almost over. He undressed with extreme caution, and fell asleep feeling glad that nobody knew of his adventure. He was not aware that the gently snoring Sid was awake, and had been so for an hour.

When Tom awoke, Sid was dressed and gone. There was a late look in the light, a late feeling in the atmosphere. He was startled. Why had he not been called -- bothered until he was up, as usual? The thought filled him with a bad feeling. Within five minutes he was dressed and downstairs, feeling tired and sleepy. The family were still at the table, but they had finished breakfast. There was no voice of criticism; but there were eyes looking away; there was a silence and an air of seriousness that struck a chill to the guilty boy's heart. He sat down and tried to seem cheerful, but it was difficult work; it raised no smile, no response, and he fell into silence and let his heart sink down to the bottom.

After breakfast his aunt took him aside, and Tom almost brightened in the hope that he was going to be whipped; but it was not so. His aunt wept over him and asked him how he could go and break her old heart so; and finally told him to go on, and ruin himself and bring her gray hairs with sorrow to the grave, for it was no use for her to try any more. This was worse than a thousand whippings, and Tom's heart was more sore now than his body. He cried, he begged for forgiveness, promised to do better over and over again, and then received his permission to leave, feeling that he had won but an incomplete forgiveness and had not fully restored her trust.

He left the room too miserable to even feel like taking revenge on Sid; and so the latter's quick exit through the back gate was unnecessary. He went to school gloomy and sad, and took his punishment, along with Joe Harper, for playing hooky the day before, with the air of one whose heart was busy with heavier sorrows and completely unconcerned with small things. Then he went to his seat, rested his elbows on his desk and his jaws in his hands, and stared at the wall with the blank stare of suffering that has reached its limit and can go no further. His elbow was pressing against some hard object. After a long time he slowly and sadly changed his position, and picked up this object with a sigh. It was in a paper. He unrolled it. A long, heavy sigh followed, and his heart broke. It was his brass fireplace knob!

This final small weight broke the camel's back.