CLOSE upon the hour of noon the whole village was suddenly shocked with the terrible news. There was no need of the not yet invented telegraph; the story flew from person to person, from group to group, from house to house, with nearly the speed of lightning. Of course the schoolmaster gave the afternoon off; the town would have thought strangely of him if he had not.

A bloody knife had been found close to the murdered man, and it had been identified by someone as belonging to Muff Potter -- so the story went. And it was said that a citizen, who was out later than usual, had come upon Potter washing himself in the "stream" at about one or two o'clock in the morning, and that Potter had at once slipped away -- which seemed suspicious, especially the washing, which was not a habit with Potter. It was also said that the town had been searched thoroughly for this "murderer" (the public are not slow when it comes to looking at evidence and reaching a judgment), but that he could not be found. Men on horseback had left town on all the roads in every direction, and the Sheriff "was certain" that he would be captured before night.

All the town was moving toward the graveyard. Tom's heartbreak disappeared and he joined the crowd, not because he would not a thousand times rather go anywhere else, but because an awful, unexplainable attraction drew him on. When he arrived at the dreadful place, he squeezed his small body through the crowd and saw the sad sight. It seemed to him like an age since he was there before. Someone pinched his arm. He turned, and his eyes met Huckleberry's. Then both looked elsewhere at once, and wondered if anybody had noticed anything in their shared glance. But everybody was talking, and focused upon the horrible spectacle before them.

"Poor fellow!" "Poor young fellow!" "This ought to be a lesson to grave robbers!" "Muff Potter'll hang for this if they catch him!" This was the main topic of discussion; and the minister said, "It was a punishment from God; His hand is here."

Now Tom shivered all over; for his eye fell upon the unmoved face of Injun Joe. At this moment the crowd began to move and push, and voices shouted, "It's him! it's him! he's coming himself!"

"Who? Who?" from twenty voices.

"Muff Potter!"

"Hey, he's stopped! -- Look out, he's turning! Don't let him get away!"

People in the branches of the trees over Tom's head said he wasn't trying to get away -- he only looked uncertain and confused.

"Terrible nerve!" said a bystander; "wanted to come and take a quiet look at his work, I reckon -- didn't expect any company."

The crowd parted, and the Sheriff came through, proudly leading Potter by the arm. The poor man's face was exhausted and pale, and his eyes showed the fear that was upon him. When he stood before the murdered man, he shook as if with a disease, and he put his face in his hands and burst into tears.

"I didn't do it, friends," he sobbed; "I swear to you I never done it."

"Who's accusing you?" shouted a voice.

This question seemed to hit its mark. Potter lifted his face and looked around him with a sad hopelessness in his eyes. He saw Injun Joe, and exclaimed:

"Oh, Injun Joe, you promised me you'd never --"

"Is that your knife?" and it was pushed before him by the Sheriff.

Potter would have fallen if they had not caught him and gently lowered him to the ground. Then he said:

"Something told me that if I didn't come back and get --" He shuddered; then waved his weak hand in a defeated way and said, "Tell them, Joe, tell them -- it isn't any use any more."

Then Huckleberry and Tom stood silent and staring, and heard the cruel liar tell his calm story, and they were expecting every moment that the clear sky would deliver God's lightning upon his head, and wondering why the strike was so delayed. And when he had finished and still stood alive and unharmed, their urge to break their oath and save the poor betrayed prisoner's life faded and vanished away, for clearly this evil person had sold himself to Satan and it would be deadly to interfere with the property of such a power as that.

"Why didn't you leave? What did you want to come here for?" somebody said.

"I couldn't help it -- I couldn't help it," Potter moaned. "I wanted to run away, but I couldn't seem to go anywhere but here." And he fell to sobbing again.

Injun Joe repeated his story, just as calmly, a few minutes afterward at the official inquest, under oath; and the boys, seeing that the lightning was still held back, were confirmed in their belief that Joe had sold himself to the devil. He had now become, to them, the most dangerously interesting person they had ever looked upon, and they could not take their fascinated eyes from his face.

They privately decided to watch him at night, when the opportunity came, in the hope of getting a glimpse of his terrible master.

Injun Joe helped to lift the body of the murdered man and put it in a wagon for removal; and it was whispered through the shuddering crowd that the wound bled a little! The boys thought that this fact would point suspicion in the right direction; but they were disappointed, for more than one villager remarked:

"It was within three feet of Muff Potter when it done it."

Tom's fearful secret and troubling conscience disturbed his sleep for as much as a week after this; and at breakfast one morning Sid said:

"Tom, you toss around and talk in your sleep so much that you keep me awake half the time."

Tom turned pale and dropped his eyes.

"It's a bad sign," said Aunt Polly, gravely. "What have you got on your mind, Tom?"

"Nothing. Nothing that I know of." But the boy's hand shook so that he spilled his coffee.

"And you do talk such strange things," Sid said. "Last night you said, 'It's blood, it's blood, that's what it is!' You said that over and over. And you said, 'Don't bother me so -- I'll tell!' Tell WHAT? What is it you'll tell?"

Everything was spinning before Tom. There is no telling what might have happened now, but luckily the worry passed out of Aunt Polly's face and she came to Tom's relief without knowing it. She said:

"Come now! It's that dreadful murder. I dream about it most every night myself. Sometimes I dream it's me that done it."

Mary said she had been affected much the same way. Sid seemed satisfied. Tom got out of the room as quickly as he could manage, and after that he complained of toothache for a week, and wrapped up his jaws every night. He never knew that Sid lay watching each night, and frequently slipped the bandage free and then leaned on his elbow listening for a good while at a time, and afterward slipped the bandage back to its place again. Tom's distress gradually faded away and the toothache grew annoying and was stopped. If Sid really managed to make anything out of Tom's confused mutterings, he kept it to himself.

It seemed to Tom that his schoolmates would never get done holding mock investigations on dead cats, and thus keeping his trouble present to his mind. Sid noticed that Tom never took the leading role at one of these investigations, though it had been his habit to take charge in all new activities; he noticed, too, that Tom never acted as a witness -- and that was strange; and Sid did not fail to notice that Tom even showed a marked strong dislike for these investigations, and always avoided them when he could. Sid wondered, but said nothing. However, even these investigations went out of fashion at last, and ceased to bother Tom's conscience.

Every day or two, during this time of distress, Tom watched his opportunity and went to the little barred jail window and secretly passed such small comforts through to the "murderer" as he could get hold of. The jail was a small little brick structure that stood in a marsh at the edge of the village, and no guards were provided for it; indeed, it was seldom used. These gifts greatly helped to ease Tom's conscience.

The villagers had a strong desire to cover Injun Joe in tar and feathers and carry him on a rail, for digging up bodies, but his character was so threatening that nobody could be found who was willing to take the lead in the matter, so it was dropped. He had been careful to begin both of his inquest statements with the fight, without admitting the grave-robbing that came before it; therefore it was thought wisest not to bring the case to court at present.