WITHIN a few minutes the news had spread, and a dozen small boats full of men were on their way to McDougal's cave, and the ferryboat, well filled with passengers, soon followed. Tom Sawyer was in the small boat that carried Judge Thatcher. When the cave door was unlocked, a sad sight appeared in the dim light of the place. Injun Joe lay stretched on the ground, dead, with his face close to the crack of the door, as if his desperate eyes had been fixed, to the very last moment, upon the light and freedom of the world outside. Tom was moved, for he knew from his own experience how this unfortunate man had suffered. His sympathy was stirred, but nevertheless he felt an overflowing sense of relief and safety, which showed him how great a weight of fear had been pressing on him since the day he had spoken out against this killer in court. Injun Joe's large knife lay close by, its blade broken in two. The great main wooden bar of the door had been cut and chopped through, with exhausting effort; useless effort, too, for the natural rock formed a base outside it, and on that hard material the knife had done no damage; the only thing that was damaged was the knife itself. But if there had been no rock in the way, the effort would still have been useless, for even if the bar had been completely cut away Injun Joe could not have pushed his body under the door, and he knew it. So he had only chopped at it to be doing something -- to pass the terrible time -- to keep his suffering mind busy. Normally one could find half a dozen bits of candle stuck in small holes of this entrance, left by tourists; but there were none now. The prisoner had found them and eaten them. He had also managed to catch a few bats, and these too he had eaten, leaving only their claws. The poor unfortunate had starved to death. In one place, near at hand, a rock column growing from the floor had been slowly built up over ages by the water dripping from a rock column hanging from the ceiling above. The prisoner had broken off the column, and on the broken base had placed a stone with a shallow hollow carved in it to catch the precious drop that fell once in every three minutes with the sad regularity of a clock tick -- a teaspoon's worth once in twenty-four hours. That drop was falling when the Pyramids were new; when Troy fell; when the foundations of Rome were laid; when Christ was crucified; when the Conqueror created the British empire; when Columbus sailed; when the first shots of the American Revolution were fired. It is falling now; it will still be falling when all these things have sunk into the distant past, and been swallowed up in complete forgetting. Has everything a purpose? Did this drop fall patiently during five thousand years to be ready for this brief human being's need? No matter. It has been many years since the unlucky man carved out the stone to catch the priceless drops, but to this day the tourist stares longest at that sad stone and that slow-dropping water when they come to see the wonders of McDougal's cave. Injun Joe's cup stands first in the list of the cavern's wonders; even "Aladdin's Palace" cannot match it. Injun Joe was buried near the mouth of the cave; and people rushed there in boats and wagons from the towns and from all the farms and small villages for seven miles around; they brought their children, and all sorts of food, and admitted that they had had almost as enjoyable a time at the funeral as they would have had at a hanging. This funeral ended one thing -- the request to the governor for Injun Joe's pardon. The request had been widely signed; many emotional meetings had been held, and a group of well-meaning women had been appointed to go dressed in black and appeal to the governor, and beg him to be merciful. Injun Joe was believed to have killed five people in the village, but what of that? If he had been the devil himself there would have been plenty of misguided people ready to sign a pardon petition, and cry over it too. The morning after the funeral Tom took Huck to a private place to have an important talk. Huck had learned all about Tom's adventure from the Welshman and the Widow Douglas by this time, but Tom said he thought there was one thing they had not told him; that thing was what he wanted to talk about now. Huck's face fell. He said: "I know what it is. You went into No. 2 and never found anything but whiskey. Nobody told me it was you; but I just knew it must have been you, soon as I heard about that whiskey business; and I knew you hadn't got the money because you'd have contacted me somehow or other and told me even if you were supposed to keep quiet to everybody else. Tom, something's always told me we'd never get hold of that stolen money." "Why, Huck, I never told on that tavern keeper. YOU know his tavern was fine the Saturday I went to the picnic. Don't you remember you were supposed to watch there that night?" "Oh yes! Why, it seems about a year ago. It was that very night that I followed Injun Joe to the widow's house." "YOU followed him?" "Yes -- but keep it quiet. I think Injun Joe's left friends behind him, and I don't want them to get angry with me and do mean things to me. If it hadn't been for me he'd be down in Texas now, safe." Then Huck told his whole adventure in secret to Tom, who had only heard the Welshman's part of it before. "Well," said Huck presently, coming back to the main point, "whoever took the whiskey in No. 2, took the money too, I reckon -- anyway it's gone for us, Tom." "Huck, that money was never in No. 2!" "What!" Huck looked closely at his friend. "Tom, have you found the trail of that money again?" "Huck, it's in the cave!" Huck's eyes lit up. "Say it again, Tom." "The money's in the cave!" "Tom -- honestly now -- is it a joke, or real?" "Real, Huck -- as real as anything in my life. Will you go in there with me and help get it out?" "I'll say I will! I will if we can mark our way and not get lost." "Huck, we can do that without any trouble at all." "Wonderful! What makes you think the money's --" "Huck, you just wait until we get in there. If we don't find it I'll agree to give you my drum and everything I've got in the world. I will, I promise." "All right -- it's amazing. When do you want to go?" "Right now, if you're willing. Are you strong enough?" "Is it far in the cave? I've been on my feet a little, three or four days now, but I can't walk more than a mile, Tom -- at least I don't think I could." "It's about five miles the way anyone but me would go, Huck, but there's a very short cut that nobody knows but me. Huck, I'll take you right to it in a small boat. I'll row the boat down there, and I'll row it back again all by myself. You don't need to help." "Let's start right away, Tom." "All right. We want some bread and meat, and our pipes, and a little bag or two, and two or three kite strings, and some of these new things they call matches. I tell you, many's the time I wished I had some when I was in there before." A little after noon the boys borrowed a small boat and got going right away. When they were several miles below "Cave Hole," Tom said: "Now you see this steep bank here looks all alike all the way down from the cave hole -- no houses, no wood piles, bushes all alike. But do you see that white place up there where there's been a rock slide? Well, that's one of my landmarks. We'll get ashore now." They landed. "Now, Huck, where we're standing you could touch the hole I got out of with a fishing pole. See if you can find it." Huck looked all around the place, and found nothing. Tom proudly walked into a thick clump of sumac bushes and said: "Here you are! Look at it, Huck; it's the best hole in this area. You just keep quiet about it. All this time I've been wanting to be a robber, but I knew I needed something like this, and finding it was the problem. We've got it now, and we'll keep it secret, only we'll let Joe Harper and Ben Rogers in -- because of course there's got to be a group, or else there wouldn't be any style about it. Tom Sawyer's Gang -- it sounds impressive, doesn't it, Huck?" "Well, it really does, Tom. And who'll we rob?" "Oh, almost anybody. Stop people on the road -- that's mostly the way." "And kill them?" "No, not always. Keep them in the cave till they pay a ransom." "What's a ransom?" "Money. You make them raise all they can from their friends; and after you've kept them a year, if it isn't raised then you kill them. That's the general way. Only you don't kill the women. You lock up the women, but you don't kill them. They're always beautiful and rich, and very scared. You take their watches and things, but you always take your hat off and talk politely. Nobody is as polite as robbers -- you'll see that in any book. Well, the women start to like you, and after they've been in the cave a week or two they stop crying and after that you couldn't make them leave. If you drove them out they'd turn right around and come back. That's what happens in all the books." "Why, that's really great, Tom. I think it's better than being a pirate." "Yes, it's better in some ways, because it's close to home and circuses and all that." By this time everything was ready and the boys entered the hole, Tom in the lead. They worked their way to the far end of the tunnel, then tied their kite strings together and moved on. A few steps brought them to the spring, and Tom felt a shiver run through him. He showed Huck the piece of candle wick resting on a lump of clay against the wall, and described how he and Becky had watched the flame struggle and go out. The boys began to speak in whispers, for the stillness and darkness of the place weighed on their spirits. They went on, and soon entered and followed Tom's other corridor until they reached the "drop-off." The candles showed that it was not really a cliff, but only a steep clay hill twenty or thirty feet high. Tom whispered: "Now I'll show you something, Huck." He held his candle up and said: "Look as far around the corner as you can. Do you see that? There -- on the big rock over there -- made with candle smoke." "Tom, it's a CROSS!" "NOW where's your No. 2? 'UNDER THE CROSS,' right? Right over there is where I saw Injun Joe poke up his candle, Huck!" Huck stared at the magic sign for a while, and then said with a shaky voice: "Tom, let's get out of here!" "What! And leave the treasure?" "Yes -- leave it. Injun Joe's ghost is around here, for sure." "No it isn't, Huck, no it isn't. It would haunt the place where he died -- way out at the mouth of the cave -- five miles from here." "No, Tom, it would stay near the money. I know the ways of ghosts, and so do you." Tom began to think that Huck might be right. Worries gathered in his mind. But then an idea came to him -- "Look here, Huck, what fools we're being! Injun Joe's ghost isn't going to hang around where there's a cross!" The point was well made. It worked. "Tom, I didn't think of that. But that's true. It's lucky for us, that cross is. I think we'll climb down there and search for that box." Tom went first, cutting rough steps in the clay hill as he went down. Huck followed. Four passages opened out of the small cavern where the great rock stood. The boys checked three of them with no result. They found a small space in the one nearest the base of the rock, with a bed of blankets spread in it; also an old suspender, some bacon rind, and the well-chewed bones of two or three chickens. But there was no money box. The boys searched and searched again, but in vain. Tom said: "He said UNDER the cross. Well, this comes nearest to being under the cross. It can't be under the rock itself, because that sits solid on the ground." They looked everywhere once more, and then sat down sadly. Huck could think of nothing. After a while Tom said: "Look here, Huck, there are footprints and some candle grease on the clay on one side of this rock, but not on the other sides. Now, what does that mean? I bet you the money IS under the rock. I'm going to dig in the clay." "That isn't a bad idea, Tom!" said Huck with excitement. Tom's knife was out at once, and he had not dug four inches before he struck wood. "Hey, Huck! -- hear that?" Huck began to dig and scrape now. Some boards were soon uncovered and removed. They had hidden a natural crack which led under the rock. Tom got into this and held his candle as far under the rock as he could, but said he could not see to the end of the opening. He suggested exploring. He bent down and went under; the narrow way went down gradually. He followed its winding course, first to the right, then to the left, Huck right behind him. Tom turned a short curve, and exclaimed: "My goodness, Huck, look here!" It was the treasure box, for sure, sitting in a nice little cavern, along with an empty powder barrel, a couple of guns in leather cases, two or three pairs of old shoes, a leather belt, and some other items soaked with water drip. "Got it at last!" said Huck, pushing through the dull gold coins with his hand. "My, but we're rich, Tom!" "Huck, I always knew we'd get it. It's just too good to believe, but we HAVE got it, sure! Say -- let's not waste time here. Let's pull it out. Let me see if I can lift the box." It weighed about fifty pounds. Tom could lift it, with some difficulty, but could not carry it easily. "I thought so," he said; "THEY carried it as if it were heavy, that day at the haunted house. I noticed that. I was right to think of bringing the little bags." The money was soon in the bags and the boys brought it up to the cross rock. "Now let's get the guns and things," said Huck. "No, Huck -- leave them there. They're just the tools to have when we go robbing. We'll keep them here all the time, and we'll have our meetings here too. It's a wonderful meeting place." "What meetings?" "I don't know. But robbers always have meetings, and of course we've got to have them too. Come along, Huck, we've been in here a long time. It's getting late, I think. I'm hungry too. We'll eat and smoke when we get to the boat." They soon came out into the clump of sumac bushes, looked carefully out, found the area clear, and were soon eating and smoking in the boat. As the sun sank toward the horizon they pushed out and started moving. Tom rowed quickly up the shore through the long evening light, chatting cheerfully with Huck, and landed shortly after dark. "Now, Huck," said Tom, "we'll hide the money in the loft of the widow's woodshed, and I'll come up in the morning and we'll count it and divide it, and then we'll find a safe place in the woods for it. Just you stay here and watch the stuff while I go get Benny Taylor's little wagon; I won't be a minute." He disappeared, and came back shortly with the wagon, put the two small bags into it, threw some old rags on top of them, and started off, pulling it behind him. When the boys reached the Welshman's house, they stopped to rest. Just as they were about to move on, the Welshman came out and said: "Hello, who's that?" "Huck and Tom Sawyer." "Good! Come along with me, boys, you're keeping everybody waiting. Here -- hurry up, walk ahead -- I'll pull the wagon for you. Why, it's not as light as it looks. Got rocks in it? -- or old metal?" "Old metal," said Tom. "I thought so; the boys in this town will spend more time and work searching for little bits of old iron to sell than they would to earn twice the money by regular work. But that's human nature -- hurry along, hurry along!" The boys wanted to know what the hurry was about. "Never mind; you'll see, when we get to the Widow Douglas'." Huck said with some worry -- for he was used to being accused wrongly: "Mr. Jones, we haven't been doing anything wrong." The Welshman laughed. "Well, I don't know, Huck, my boy. I don't know about that. Aren't you and the widow good friends?" "Yes. Well, she's been good to me, anyway." "All right, then. What do you want to be afraid for?" This question was not fully answered in Huck's slow mind before he found himself pushed, along with Tom, into Mrs. Douglas' nicely furnished room. Mr. Jones left the wagon near the door and followed. The place was brightly lit, and every important person in the village was there. The Thatchers were there, the Harpers, the Rogerses, Aunt Polly, Sid, Mary, the minister, the newspaper editor, and many more, all dressed in their best. The widow received the boys as warmly as anyone could receive two such untidy-looking creatures. They were covered with clay and candle grease. Aunt Polly went red with shame, and frowned and shook her head at Tom. Nobody suffered as much as the two boys did, however. Mr. Jones said: "Tom wasn't at home yet, so I gave up on him; but I found him and Huck right at my door, and so I just brought them along quickly." "And you did just right," said the widow. "Come with me, boys." She took them to a bedroom and said: "Now wash and dress yourselves. Here are two new suits of clothes -- shirts, socks, everything complete. They're Huck's -- no, no thanks, Huck -- Mr. Jones bought one and I the other. But they'll fit both of you. Put them on. We'll wait -- come down when you are clean." Then she left.