THE first thing Tom heard on Friday morning was a happy piece of news -- Judge Thatcher's family had come back to town the night before. Both Injun Joe and the treasure became less important for a moment, and Becky took the main place in the boy's thoughts. He saw her and they had an extremely good time playing games with a crowd of their schoolmates. The day was finished perfectly in a very satisfying way: Becky asked her mother to set the next day for the long-promised and long-delayed picnic, and she agreed. The child's happiness was enormous; and Tom's no less. The invitations were sent out before evening, and right away the young people of the village were thrown into great excitement and preparations. Tom's excitement kept him awake until quite late, and he had good hopes of hearing Huck's "meow," and of having the treasure to surprise Becky and the picnickers with the next day; but he was disappointed. No signal came that night.

Morning came eventually, and by ten or eleven o'clock a lively and happy group had gathered at Judge Thatcher's, and everything was ready to start. It was not the custom for older people to spoil the picnics with their presence. The children were considered safe enough under the care of a few young ladies of eighteen and a few young men of twenty-three or so. The old steam ferryboat was hired for the occasion; soon the cheerful crowd marched up the main street carrying baskets of food. Sid was sick and had to miss the fun; Mary stayed at home to look after him. The last thing Mrs. Thatcher said to Becky was:

"You won't get back until late. Perhaps you'd better stay the night with some of the girls who live near the ferry landing, child."

"Then I'll stay with Susy Harper, mama."

"Very well. And be sure to behave yourself and don't cause any trouble."

Presently, as they walked along happily, Tom said to Becky:

"Say -- I'll tell you what we'll do. Instead of going to Joe Harper's we'll climb right up the hill and stop at the Widow Douglas'. She'll have ice cream! She has it almost every day -- lots of it. And she'll be very glad to have us."

"Oh, that will be fun!"

Then Becky thought for a moment and said:

"But what will mama say?"

"How will she ever know?"

The girl thought it over, and said hesitantly:

"I think it's wrong -- but --"

"But come on! Your mother won't know, and so what's the harm? All she wants is that you'll be safe; and I bet she'd have said go there if she'd thought of it. I'm sure she would!"

The Widow Douglas' wonderful generosity was a tempting attraction. It and Tom's persuasion soon won. So it was decided to say nothing to anybody about the night's plan. Then it occurred to Tom that maybe Huck might come this very night and give the signal. The thought took away a good amount of his excitement about the evening. Still he could not give up the fun at Widow Douglas'. And why should he give it up, he told himself -- the signal did not come the night before, so why should it be any more likely to come tonight? The certain fun of the evening was worth more than the uncertain treasure; and, like a typical boy, he decided to follow the stronger desire and not allow himself to think about the box of money another time that day.

Three miles below town the ferryboat stopped at the entrance to a wooded area and tied up. The crowd rushed ashore and soon the forest and rocky hills echoed far and near with shouts and laughter. All the different ways of getting hot and tired were tried, and after a while the wanderers came slowly back to camp with healthy appetites, and then the eating of the good things began. After the meal there was a pleasant period of rest and chatting in the shade of large oak trees. After a while somebody shouted:

"Who's ready for the cave?"

Everybody was. Bundles of candles were brought out, and right away there was a general rush up the hill. The mouth of the cave was on the hillside -- an opening shaped like the letter A. Its large wooden door stood open. Inside was a small chamber, as cold as an ice box, and walled by Nature with solid wet limestone. It was romantic and mysterious to stand there in the deep darkness and look out upon the green valley shining in the sun. But the seriousness of the situation quickly faded, and the playing began again. The moment a candle was lit there was a general rush at the owner of it; a struggle and a brave defense followed, but the candle was soon knocked down or blown out, and then there was glad laughing and a new chase. But all things must end. By and by the group went moving in a line down the steep main passage, the flickering line of lights dimly showing the high walls of rock almost to where they met sixty feet overhead. This main passage was not more than eight or ten feet wide. Every few steps other tall and still narrower cracks branched from it on either side -- for McDougal's cave was a vast maze of winding paths that ran into each other and out again and led nowhere. It was said that one might walk for days and nights through its complex tangle of paths and deep gaps and never find the end of the cave; and that one might go deeper and deeper into the earth, and it was just the same -- one maze after another, with no end. Nobody "knew" the cave completely. That was impossible. Most of the young men knew a part of it, and it was not usual to go much beyond this known section. Tom Sawyer knew as much of the cave as anyone.

The group moved along the main passage for about three quarters of a mile, and then groups and pairs began to slip off into side passages, run quickly along the dark paths, and surprise each other at points where the corridors joined again. Groups could avoid each other for up to half an hour without going beyond the "known" area.

After a while, one group after another came tiredly back to the mouth of the cave, out of breath, very happy, covered from head to foot with candle wax drips, smeared with clay, and completely delighted with the day's success. Then they were surprised to find that they had not noticed the time and that night was almost upon them. The loud bell had been ringing for half an hour. However, this kind of ending to the day's adventures was exciting and therefore satisfying. When the ferryboat with her happy passengers pushed into the river, nobody much cared about the lost time except the captain of the boat.

Huck was already at his watching spot when the ferryboat's lights went flashing past the dock. He heard no noise on board, for the young people were as quiet as people usually are when they are nearly exhausted. He wondered what boat it was, and why it did not stop at the dock -- and then he forgot about it and put his attention back on his job. The night was becoming cloudy and dark. Ten o'clock came, and the noise of vehicles stopped, scattered lights began to go out, all walkers disappeared, the village went to sleep and left the small watcher alone with the silence. Eleven o'clock came, and the tavern lights were put out; darkness everywhere now. Huck waited what seemed a very long time, but nothing happened. Was there any point? Why not give up and go to bed?

A noise reached his ear. He was completely alert instantly. The alley door closed softly. He jumped to the corner of the brick store. The next moment two men brushed past him, and one seemed to have something under his arm. It must be that box! So they were going to move the treasure. Why call Tom now? It would be silly -- the men would get away with the box and never be found again. No, he would stay on their trail and follow them; he would trust the darkness to keep him safe from discovery. Thinking this to himself, Huck stepped out and slipped along behind the men, like a cat, with bare feet, letting them stay just far enough ahead to remain barely visible.

They moved up the river street three blocks, then turned left on a cross street. They went straight ahead then, until they came to the path that led up Cardiff Hill; this they took. They passed by the old Welshman's house, halfway up the hill, without stopping, and kept climbing. Good, thought Huck, they will bury it in the old quarry. But they never stopped at the quarry. They passed on, up to the highest point. They entered the narrow path between the tall sumac bushes, and were immediately hidden in the darkness. Huck moved closer and shortened his distance, for they would not be able to see him. He ran lightly for a while; then slowed his pace, afraid he was getting too close; moved on a bit, then stopped completely; listened; no sound; none, except what seemed like his own heartbeat. The cry of an owl came over the hill -- a bad sign! But no footsteps. Had everything been lost! He was about to rush forward when a man cleared his throat not four feet from him! Huck's heart jumped into his throat, but he swallowed it back down; and then he stood there shaking as if a dozen fevers had taken hold of him at once, and so weak that he thought he must surely fall to the ground. He knew where he was. He knew he was within five steps of the steps leading into the Widow Douglas' grounds. Very well, he thought, let them bury it there; it won't be hard to find.

Now there was a voice -- a very low voice -- Injun Joe's:

"Damn her, maybe she's got company -- there are lights, late as it is."

"I can't see any."

This was the stranger's voice -- the stranger from the haunted house. A deadly chill went to Huck's heart -- this, then, was the "revenge" job! His first thought was to run. Then he remembered that the Widow Douglas had been kind to him more than once, and maybe these men were going to hurt her. He wished he could risk warning her; but he knew he didn't dare -- they might come and catch him. He thought all this and more in the moment between the stranger's remark and Injun Joe's next words:

"Because the bush is in your way. Now -- this way -- now you can see, can't you?"

"Yes. Well, there IS company there, I think. Better give up."

"Give it up, and I'm leaving this country forever! Give it up and maybe never have another chance. I tell you again, as I've told you before, I don't care for her money -- you can have it. But her husband was cruel to me -- many times he was cruel -- and mainly he was the judge who sent me to jail as a tramp. And that isn't all. It's not even a tiny part of it! He had me WHIPPED! -- whipped in front of the jail, like a slave! -- with all the town watching! WHIPPED! -- do you understand? He took advantage of me and then died. But I'll make HER suffer for it."

"Oh, don't kill her! Don't do that!"

"Kill? Who said anything about killing? I would kill HIM if he were here; but not her. When you want to get revenge on a woman you don't kill her -- no! You go for her appearance. You cut her nose -- you mark her ears!"

"For God's sake, that's --"

"Keep your opinion to yourself! It will be safer for you. I'll tie her to the bed. If she dies, is that my fault? I won't cry if she does. My friend, you'll help me in this -- for MY sake -- that's why you're here -- I might not be able to do it alone. If you back out, I'll kill you. Do you understand? And if I have to kill you, I'll kill her -- and then nobody will ever know much about who did this."

"Well, if it has to be done, let's do it. The sooner the better -- I'm shaking all over."

"Do it NOW? With company there? Look here -- I'll start suspecting you, first thing you know. No -- we'll wait until the lights are out -- there's no hurry."

Huck felt that a silence was about to come -- something even more terrible than all the violent talk; so he held his breath and stepped gently back; placed his foot carefully and firmly, balancing on one leg in a dangerous way and almost falling, first on one side and then on the other. He took another step back, with the same care and the same risks; then another and another, and -- a twig snapped under his foot! His breath stopped and he listened. There was no sound -- the stillness was complete. His relief was enormous. Now he turned in his tracks, between the walls of sumac bushes -- turning himself as carefully as if he were a large ship -- and then stepped quickly but carefully along. When he came out at the quarry he felt safe, and so he picked up his heels and ran. Down, down he flew, until he reached the Welshman's house. He pounded at the door, and soon the heads of the old man and his two strong sons appeared at windows.

"What's all the noise? Who's banging? What do you want?"

"Let me in -- quickly! I'll tell everything."

"Why, who are you?"

"Huckleberry Finn -- quick, let me in!"

"Huckleberry Finn, indeed! It isn't a name to open many doors! But let him in, boys, and let's see what the trouble is."

"Please don't ever tell I told you," were Huck's first words when he got in. "Please don't -- I'd be killed, for sure -- but the widow has been good to me sometimes, and I want to tell -- I WILL tell if you promise you won't ever say it was me."

"By George, he HAS got something to tell, or he wouldn't act so!" exclaimed the old man; "out with it, and nobody here will ever tell, lad."

Three minutes later the old man and his sons, well armed, were up the hill and just entering the sumac path on tiptoe, their weapons in their hands. Huck went no further with them. He hid behind a great rock and listened. There was a slow, anxious silence, and then suddenly there was an explosion of gunshots and a cry.

Huck waited for no more details. He ran down the hill as fast as his legs could carry him.