A FEW minutes later Tom was in the shallow water of the sandbar, wading toward the Illinois shore. Before the water reached his middle he was half-way across; the current would not allow any more wading, so he started to swim the remaining hundred yards with confidence. He swam at an angle upstream, but was still carried downward faster than he had expected. However, he reached the shore finally, and walked along until he found a low place and climbed out. He put his hand on his jacket pocket, found his piece of bark safe, and then walked through the woods, following the shore, with wet clothes. Shortly before ten o'clock he came out into an open area opposite the village, and saw the ferryboat sitting in the shadow of the trees and the high bank. Everything was quiet under the blinking stars. He crept down the bank, watching carefully, slipped into the water, swam three or four strokes and climbed into the small boat that served as support at the boat's back. He lay down under the seats and waited, breathing hard.

Soon the cracked bell rang and a voice gave the order to "untie the ropes." A minute or two later the small boat's front was riding high against the larger boat's wave, and the journey began. Tom felt happy at his success, for he knew it was the boat's last trip for the night. After a long twelve or fifteen minutes the wheels stopped, and Tom slipped overboard and swam to shore in the dark, landing fifty yards downstream, away from any late-night walkers.

He ran along quiet back alleys, and soon found himself at his aunt's back fence. He climbed over, went to the back part of the house, and looked in at the sitting-room window, for a light was burning there. There sat Aunt Polly, Sid, Mary, and Joe Harper's mother, sitting together, talking. They were near the bed, and the bed was between them and the door. Tom went to the door and began to softly lift the latch; then he pushed gently and the door opened a crack; he continued pushing carefully, stopping every time it made a sound, until he judged he could squeeze through on his knees; so he put his head through and began, very carefully.

"What makes the candle blow so?" said Aunt Polly. Tom moved faster. "Why, that door's open, I believe. Why, of course it is. Strange things keep happening. Go and shut it, Sid."

Tom disappeared under the bed just in time. He lay there and caught his breath for a moment, and then crept to where he could almost touch his aunt's foot.

"But as I was saying," said Aunt Polly, "he wasn't BAD, exactly -- only naughty. Just careless, and wild, you know. He wasn't any more responsible than a young horse. HE never meant any harm, and he was the best-hearted boy that ever was" -- and she began to cry.

"It was just so with my Joe -- always full of his mischief, and up to every kind of trouble, but he was just as kind as he could be -- and goodness me, to think I went and hit him for taking that cream, never once remembering that I threw it out myself because it was sour, and I'll never see him again in this world, never, never, never, poor mistreated boy!" And Mrs. Harper sobbed as if her heart would break.

"I hope Tom's better off where he is," said Sid, "but if he'd been better in some ways --"

"SID!" Tom felt the angry look of the old lady's eye, though he could not see it. "Not a word against my Tom, now that he's gone! God will take care of HIM -- don't you worry, sir! Oh, Mrs. Harper, I don't know how to accept his loss! I don't know how to accept his loss! He was such a comfort to me, although he wore out my old heart, almost."

"The Lord giveth and the Lord hath taken away -- Blessed be the name of the Lord! But it's so hard -- Oh, it's so hard! Only last Saturday my Joe set off a firecracker right under my nose and I knocked him down. Little did I know then, how soon -- Oh, if it was to do over again I'd hug him and bless him for it."

"Yes, yes, yes, I know just how you feel, Mrs. Harper, I know just exactly how you feel. No longer ago than yesterday noon, my Tom gave the cat some Pain-killer, and I thought the creature would tear the house down. And God forgive me, I hit Tom's head with my thimble, poor boy, poor dead boy. But he's out of all his troubles now. And the last words I ever heard him say was to complain --"

But this memory was too much for the old lady, and she broke down completely. Tom was crying softly himself now -- and more out of pity for himself than for anyone else. He could hear Mary crying, and saying kind words about him from time to time. He began to have a better opinion of himself than ever before. Still, he was moved enough by his aunt's grief to want to rush out from under the bed and fill her with joy -- and the dramatic nature of the moment appealed strongly to him, too, but he resisted and lay still.

He kept listening, and learned from small pieces of information that it was first thought that the boys had drowned while swimming; then the small raft had been found missing; next, certain boys said the missing boys had promised that the village would "hear some news" soon; clever people had "put things together" and decided that the boys had gone off on that raft and would turn up at the next town below, soon; but toward noon the raft had been found, stuck against the Missouri shore some five or six miles below the village -- and then hope died; they must be drowned, or hunger would have driven them home by nightfall if not sooner. It was believed that the search for the bodies had been useless because the drowning must have happened in the middle of the river, since the boys, being good swimmers, would otherwise have reached shore. This was Wednesday night. If the bodies continued missing until Sunday, all hope would be given up, and funerals would be held on that morning. Tom shook with fear.

Mrs. Harper said a sobbing good night and turned to go. Then with a shared feeling the two sad women fell into each other's arms and cried together, and then separated. Aunt Polly was more gentle than usual in her good night to Sid and Mary. Sid sniffled a little and Mary went off crying very hard.

Aunt Polly knelt down and prayed for Tom so lovingly, so sincerely, and with such endless love in her words and her old trembling voice, that he was wet with tears again, long before she was finished.

He had to stay still long after she went to bed, for she kept making sad, broken comments from time to time, tossing without rest, and turning over. But at last she was still, only making small sounds of sadness in her sleep. Now the boy crept out, rose slowly by the bedside, shaded the candle light with his hand, and stood watching her. His heart was full of pity for her. He took out his sycamore bark and placed it by the candle. But something occurred to him, and he stayed thinking. His face lit up with a happy answer to his thought; he quickly put the bark in his pocket. Then he bent over and kissed the pale lips, and right away made his secret exit, closing the door behind him.

He found his way back to the ferry landing, found nobody walking around there, and walked boldly onto the boat, for he knew it was empty except for a watchman, who always fell asleep like a stone. He untied the small boat at the back, slipped into it, and was soon rowing carefully upstream. When he had rowed a mile above the village, he started diagonally across and worked hard. He reached the other side neatly, for this was a familiar task to him. He was tempted to take the small boat, thinking it might be considered a ship and therefore fair game for a pirate, but he knew a thorough search would be made for it and that might lead to discoveries. So he went ashore and entered the woods.

He sat down and rested a long time, forcing himself to stay awake, and then started carefully down toward the island. The night was almost over. It was broad daylight before he arrived near the island sandbar. He rested again until the sun was well up and shining its splendor on the great river, and then he plunged into the stream. A little later he stopped, dripping, at the edge of the camp, and heard Joe say:

"No, Tom's loyal, Huck, and he'll come back. He won't desert. He knows that would be a disgrace for a pirate, and Tom's too proud for that sort of thing. He's up to something. Now I wonder what?"

"Well, the things are ours anyway, aren't they?"

"Almost, but not yet, Huck. The writing says they are if he isn't back here by breakfast."

"Which he is!" exclaimed Tom, with great dramatic effect, stepping grandly into camp.

A large breakfast of bacon and fish was soon ready, and as the boys began to eat, Tom told his adventure, making it as exciting as possible. They were a proud and boastful group of heroes when the story was done. Then Tom hid himself away in a shady spot to sleep until noon, and the other pirates got ready to fish and explore.