AT half past nine that night, Tom and Sid were sent to bed, as usual. They said their prayers, and Sid was soon asleep. Tom lay awake and waited, in restless impatience. When it seemed to him that it must be nearly daylight, he heard the clock strike ten! This was hopeless. He would have tossed and moved restlessly, as his nerves demanded, but he was afraid he might wake Sid. So he lay still, and stared up into the dark. Everything was sadly quiet. By and by, out of the stillness, little, barely noticeable noises began to make themselves heard. The ticking of the clock began to be noticed. Old beams began to crack mysteriously. The stairs creaked faintly. Clearly, some sort of spirits were around. A steady, quiet snore came from Aunt Polly's bedroom. And now the tiresome chirping of a cricket that no human cleverness could find began. Next the frightening ticking of a death-watch beetle in the wall at the head of the bed made Tom shudder -- it meant that somebody's days were numbered. Then the howl of a far-off dog rose on the night air, and was answered by a fainter howl from a further distance. Tom was in great distress. At last he was satisfied that time had stopped and eternity had begun; he began to doze despite himself; the clock chimed eleven, but he did not hear it. And then there came, mixing with his half-formed dreams, a most melancholy sound of cats yowling. The opening of a nearby window disturbed him. A cry of "Scat! you devil!" and the crash of an empty bottle against the back of his aunt's woodshed brought him wide awake, and a single minute later he was dressed and out of the window and creeping along the roof of the "side part" on all fours. He "meowed" with caution once or twice as he went; then jumped to the roof of the woodshed and from there to the ground. Huckleberry Finn was there, with his dead cat. The boys moved off and disappeared in the darkness. At the end of half an hour they were wading through the tall grass of the graveyard.

It was a graveyard of the old-fashioned Western kind. It was on a hill, about a mile and a half from the village. It had a rickety wooden fence around it, which leaned inward in places, and outward the rest of the time, but stood upright nowhere. Grass and weeds grew thickly over the whole cemetery. All the old graves had sunk in, there was not a tombstone on the place; round-topped, worn wooden boards leaned over the graves, with nothing supporting them. "Sacred to the memory of" So-and-So had been painted on them once, but it could no longer be read, on most of them now, even if there had been light.

A faint wind moaned through the trees, and Tom feared it might be the spirits of the dead, complaining at being disturbed. The boys talked little, and only in very quiet voices, for the time and the place and the all-surrounding seriousness and silence weighed down their spirits. They found the fresh new grave they were looking for, and settled themselves within the shelter of three great elm trees that grew in a group within a few feet of the grave.

Then they waited in silence for what seemed a long time. The hooting of a distant owl was all the sound that broke the dead stillness. Tom's thoughts grew heavy. He must start some talk. So he said in a whisper:

"Hucky, do you believe the dead people like it for us to be here?"

Huckleberry whispered:

"I wish I knew. It's very scary, ISN'T it?"

"I bet it is."

There was a long pause, while the boys thought about this matter inwardly. Then Tom whispered:

"Say, Hucky -- do you think Hoss Williams hears us talking?"

"Of course he does. At least his spirit does."

Tom, after a pause:

"I wish I'd said Mister Williams. But I never meant any disrespect. Everybody calls him Hoss."

"A person can't be too careful how they talk about these dead people, Tom."

This was not encouraging, and the conversation died again.

Soon Tom seized his friend's arm and said:

"Sh!"

"What is it, Tom?" And the two held onto each other with beating hearts.

"Sh! There it is again! Didn't you hear it?"

"I --"

"There! Now you hear it."

"Lord, Tom, they're coming! They're coming, for sure. What'll we do?"

"I don't know. Do you think they'll see us?"

"Oh, Tom, they can see in the dark, same as cats. I wish I hadn't come."

"Oh, don't be afraid. I don't believe they'll bother us. We aren't doing any harm. If we keep perfectly still, maybe they won't notice us at all."

"I'll try to, Tom, but, Lord, I'm shaking all over."

"Listen!"

The boys bent their heads together and scarcely breathed. A quiet sound of voices floated up from the far end of the graveyard.

"Look! See there!" whispered Tom. "What is it?"

"It's a creepy light. Oh, Tom, this is awful."

Some vague shapes approached through the darkness, swinging an old-fashioned tin lantern that dotted the ground with countless little spots of light. Soon Huckleberry whispered with a shudder:

"They're devils for sure. Three of them! Lordy, Tom, we're dead men! Can you pray?"

"I'll try, but don't be afraid. They aren't going to hurt us. 'Now I lay me down to sleep, I --'"

"Sh!"

"What is it, Huck?"

"They're PEOPLE! One of them is, anyway. One of them is old Muff Potter's voice."

"No -- is that really so?"

"I'm sure I know it. Don't stir or move. He isn't smart enough to notice us. Drunk, the same as usual, most likely -- the old rascal!"

"All right, I'll keep still. Now they've stopped. Can't find it. Here they come again. Now they're getting close. Getting closer. Very close! They're headed right this way, this time. Say, Huck, I know another one of those voices; it's Injun Joe."

"That's right -- that murdering man! I'd much rather they were devils, honestly. What could they be up to?"

The whispering died completely away now, for the three men had reached the grave and stood within a few feet of the boys' hiding place.

"Here it is," said the third voice; and the owner of it held the lantern up and revealed the face of young Doctor Robinson.

Potter and Injun Joe were carrying a handcart with a rope and a couple of shovels on it. They set down their load and began to open the grave. The doctor put the lantern at the head of the grave and came and sat down with his back against one of the elm trees. He was so close the boys could have touched him.

"Hurry, men!" he said in a low voice; "the moon might come out at any moment."

They answered softly and went on digging. For some time there was no sound but the scraping of the spades dumping their loads of earth and gravel. It was very boring. Finally a spade struck upon the coffin with a dull wooden sound, and within another minute or two the men had lifted it out onto the ground. They pried off the lid with their shovels, got out the body and threw it roughly on the ground. The moon drifted from behind the clouds and showed the pale face. The handcart was made ready and the body placed on it, covered with a blanket, and tied to its place with the rope. Potter took out a large pocket knife and cut off the dangling end of the rope and then said:

"Now everything's ready, Doctor, and you'll just give us another five dollars, or here she stays."

"That's right!" said Injun Joe.

"Look here, what does this mean?" said the doctor. "You demanded your pay in advance, and I've paid you."

"Yes, and you did more than that," said Injun Joe, approaching the doctor, who was now standing. "Five years ago you drove me away from your father's kitchen one night, when I came to ask for something to eat, and you said I was there for no good reason; and when I swore I'd get even with you if it took a hundred years, your father had me put in jail for being a beggar. Did you think I'd forget? The Indian blood in me won't let me forget. And now I've GOT you, and you have to PAY, you know!"

He was threatening the doctor with his fist in his face by this time. The doctor struck out suddenly and knocked the man to the ground. Potter dropped his knife, and exclaimed:

"Here, now, don't you hit my partner!" and the next moment he had grabbed the doctor and the two were struggling with all their strength, trampling the grass and tearing the ground with their heels. Injun Joe sprang to his feet, his eyes burning with rage, snatched up Potter's knife, and went creeping like a cat around and around the fighters, looking for his chance. All at once the doctor freed himself, seized the heavy headstone of Williams' grave and knocked Potter to the earth with it -- and in the same instant the man saw his chance and drove the knife to the handle in the young man's chest. He swayed and fell partly upon Potter, covering him with his blood, and in the same moment the clouds hid the terrible sight and the two frightened boys went running away in the darkness.

Soon, when the moon came out again, Injun Joe was standing over the two bodies, watching them. The doctor murmured unclearly, gave a long gasp or two and was still. The man muttered:

"THAT score is settled -- damn you."

Then he robbed the body. After which he put the deadly knife in Potter's open right hand, and sat down on the broken coffin. Three -- four -- five minutes passed, and then Potter began to stir and moan. His hand closed upon the knife; he raised it, glanced at it, and let it fall, with a shudder. Then he sat up, pushing the body from him, and gazed at it, and then around him, confused. His eyes met Joe's.

"Lord, what happened here, Joe?" he said.

"It's a terrible business," said Joe, without moving.

"What did you do it for?"

"I! I never done it!"

"Come now! That kind of talk won't do."

Potter trembled and grew white.

"I thought I'd sobered up. I had no business to drink tonight. But it's still in my head -- worse than when we started here. I can't remember anything of it, hardly. Tell me, Joe -- truly, now, old friend -- did I do it? Joe, I never meant to -- I promise -- I never meant to, Joe. Tell me how it was, Joe. Oh, it's awful -- and him so young and promising."

"Why, you two were fighting, and he gave you one with the headstone and you fell flat; and then up you came, all staggering and swaying, and snatched the knife and drove it into him, just as he gave you another awful blow -- and here you've laid, as dead as a stone till now."

"Oh, I didn't know what I was doing. I promise I didn't. It was all because of the whiskey and the excitement, I reckon. I never used a weapon in my life before, Joe. I've fought, but never with weapons. They'll all say that. Joe, don't tell! Say you won't tell, Joe -- that's a good fellow. I always liked you, Joe, and stood up for you, too. Don't you remember? You WON'T tell, WILL you, Joe?" And the poor man fell to his knees before the heartless murderer, and held out his pleading hands.

"No, you've always been fair and honest with me, Muff Potter, and I won't betray you. There, now, that's as fair as a man can say."

"Oh, Joe, you're an angel. I'll bless you for this the longest day I live." And Potter began to cry.

"Come, now, that's enough of that. This isn't any time for heavy crying. You go off that way and I'll go this. Move, now, and don't leave any tracks behind you."

Potter started at a trot that quickly became a run. The man stood watching him. He muttered:

"If he's as stunned by the blow and confused by the drink as he looked, he won't think of the knife till he's gone so far he'll be afraid to come back for it in such a place by himself -- coward!"

Two or three minutes later the murdered man, the covered body, the lidless coffin, and the open grave were under no watch but the moon's. The stillness was complete again, too.