ABOUT half past ten the broken bell of the small church began to ring, and soon the people began to gather for the morning sermon. The Sunday school children spread out about the church and took seats with their parents, so as to be watched. Aunt Polly came, and Tom and Sid and Mary sat with her -- Tom being placed next to the aisle, in order to be as far away from the open window and the tempting outside summer scenes as possible. The crowd walked up the aisles: the aged and poor postmaster, who had known better days; the mayor and his wife -- for they had a mayor there, among other things; the local judge; the widow Douglass, fair, smart, and forty, a generous, good-hearted soul and wealthy, her hillside mansion the only fine house in the town, and the most welcoming and most generous with parties that St. Petersburg could offer; the bent and respected Major and Mrs. Ward; Lawyer Riverson, the new important person from out of town; next the most popular and beautiful girl of the village, followed by a group of light-dressed and ribbon-covered young men; then all the young clerks in town together -- for they had been standing at the entrance leaning on their canes, a ring of hair-oiled and smiling admirers, till the last girl had passed by; and last of all came the Model Boy, Willie Mufferson, taking as much care of his mother as if she were made of glass. He always brought his mother to church, and was the pride of all the married women. The boys all hated him, he was so good. And besides, he had been "held up as an example to them" so often. His white handkerchief was hanging out of his pocket behind, as usual on Sundays -- by accident, it seemed. Tom had no handkerchief, and he looked upon boys who had one as show-offs.

The worshippers all being present now, the bell rang once more to warn slow people and latecomers, and then a solemn silence fell upon the church, broken only by the quiet laughter and whispering of the choir in the gallery. The choir always laughed quietly and whispered all through the service. There was once a church choir that was not badly behaved, but I have forgotten where it was, now. It was a great many years ago, and I can scarcely remember anything about it, but I think it was in some foreign country.

The minister announced the hymn, and read it through with great pleasure, in a peculiar style which was much admired in that part of the country. His voice began on a medium pitch and climbed steadily higher till it reached a certain point, where it hit hard upon the topmost word and then plunged down as if from a springboard:

Shall I be carried to the skies, on beds of ease so flowery,
Whilst others fight to win the prize, and sail through seas so bloody?

He was considered a wonderful reader. At church social events he was always called upon to read poetry; and when he was finished, the ladies would lift up their hands and let them fall helplessly in their laps, and roll their eyes, and shake their heads, as if to say, "Words cannot express it; it is too beautiful, TOO beautiful for this mortal earth."

After the hymn had been sung, the Rev. Mr. Sprague turned himself into a notice board, and read off announcements of meetings and societies and things until it seemed that the list would stretch out to the end of time -- a strange custom which is still kept up in America, even in cities, even in this modern age of newspapers. Often, the less there is to justify keeping a long-held custom, the harder it is to get rid of it.

And now the minister prayed. A good, generous prayer it was, and went into small details: it asked for blessings upon the church, and the little children of the church; for the other churches of the village; for the village itself; for the county; for the State; for the State officers; for the United States; for the churches of the United States; for Congress; for the President; for the officers of the Government; for poor sailors, tossed by stormy seas; for the mistreated millions suffering under the control of European kings and Eastern rulers; for those who have the light and the good news, and yet have not eyes to see nor ears to hear it; for the people in the far islands of the sea who have not heard of God; and closed with a request that the words he was about to speak might find acceptance and favor, and be as seed sown in good ground, producing in time a pleasing harvest of good. Amen.

There was a sound of movement, and the standing worshippers sat down. The boy whose story this book tells did not enjoy the prayer; he only put up with it -- if he even did that much. He was restless all through it; he kept count of the details of the prayer automatically -- for he was not listening, but he knew the usual path of old, and the clergyman's regular route over it -- and when a little new matter was added, his ear noticed it and his whole being rejected it; he considered additions unfair and wrong. In the middle of the prayer a fly had landed on the back of the pew in front of him and annoyed his mind by calmly rubbing its hands together, then cleaning its head with its arms, and polishing it so hard that it seemed to almost separate from the body, and the thin thread of a neck was shown; scraping its wings with its back legs and smoothing them against its body as if they had been coat tails; going through its whole grooming as calmly as if it knew it was perfectly safe. And indeed it was; for as badly as Tom's hands itched to grab for it, they did not dare -- he believed his soul would be instantly destroyed if he did such a thing while the prayer was going on. But with the closing sentence his hand began to curve and move forward slowly; and the instant the "Amen" was out, the fly was his prisoner. His aunt spotted the act and made him let it go.

The minister gave out his text and spoke in a dull, droning voice without any change through an argument that was so dull that many a head before long began to nod -- and yet it was an argument that dealt in unlimited fire and torment and reduced the number of people to be saved to a group so small as to be hardly worth the saving. Tom counted the pages of the sermon; after church he always knew how many pages there had been, but he seldom knew anything else about the speech. However, this time he was really interested for a little while. The minister made a grand and moving picture of the gathering together of the world's people at the thousand-year reign when the lion and the lamb should lie down together and a little child should lead them. But the lesson, the moral of the great event was lost upon the boy; he only thought of the importance of the principal character before the watching nations; his face lit up with the thought, and he said to himself that he wished he could be that child, if it was a tame lion.

Now he fell back into suffering again, as the dry argument was started again. Soon he remembered a treasure he had and got it out. It was a large black beetle with frightening jaws -- a "pinchbug," he called it. It was in a small box. The first thing the beetle did was bite him on the finger. Naturally he flinched, the beetle fell tumbling into the aisle and landed on its back, and the hurt finger went into the boy's mouth. The beetle lay there moving its helpless legs, unable to turn over. Tom eyed it and wanted it; but it was safely out of his reach. Other people not interested in the sermon found relief in the beetle, and they eyed it too. Soon a stray poodle dog came walking lazily along, sad at heart, lazy with the summer warmth and the quiet, tired of captivity, wishing for something new. He saw the beetle; the drooping tail lifted and wagged. He looked at the prize; walked around it; sniffed at it from a safe distance; walked around it again; grew bolder, and sniffed more closely; then lifted his lip and made a careful, timid snatch at it, just missing it; made another, and another; began to enjoy the game; settled down with the beetle between his paws, and continued his experiments; grew tired of it at last, and then bored and unfocused. His head nodded, and little by little his chin descended and touched the enemy, who grabbed it. There was a sharp yelp, a quick movement of the poodle's head, and the beetle flew a couple of yards away and landed on its back once more. The nearby watchers shook with quiet inner joy, several faces went behind fans and handkerchiefs, and Tom was completely happy. The dog looked foolish, and probably felt so; but there was anger in his heart, too, and a strong desire for revenge. So he went to the beetle and began a careful attack on it again; jumping at it from every direction, landing with his front paws within an inch of the creature, making even closer snatches at it with his teeth, and shaking his head until his ears flapped. But he grew tired once more, after a while; tried to amuse himself with a fly but found no relief; followed an ant around with his nose close to the floor, and quickly became bored of that; yawned, sighed, forgot the beetle entirely, and sat down on it. Then there was a wild yelp of pain and the poodle went flying up the aisle; the yelps continued, and so did the dog; he crossed the church in front of the altar; he flew down the other aisle; he crossed before the doors; he ran up the final stretch; his intense pain grew as he moved, until soon he was nothing but a furry streaking object moving at the speed of light. At last the wildly desperate animal changed direction, and sprang into its master's lap; he threw it out of the window, and the sound of its pain quickly faded away and died in the distance.

By this time the whole church was red-faced and struggling not to laugh, and the sermon had come to a complete stop. The speech started again soon, but it went awkwardly and with many pauses, all possibility of making any impression being at an end; for even the most serious words were constantly received with a hidden burst of laughter, from behind some distant pew, as if the poor minister had said something remarkably funny. It was a genuine relief to the whole congregation when the ordeal was over and the final blessing was given.

Tom Sawyer went home quite cheerful, thinking to himself that there was some satisfaction about church service when there was a bit of variety in it. He had but one troubling thought; he was happy that the dog had played with his pinchbug, but he did not think it was right of him to carry it off.