AS the first hint of dawn appeared on Sunday morning, Huck came feeling his way up the hill and knocked gently at the old Welshman's door. The people inside were sleeping, but it was a light sleep that would break at the slightest sound, because of the exciting events of the night. A voice called from a window:

"Who's there!"

Huck's frightened voice answered quietly:

"Please let me in! It's only Huck Finn!"

"It's a name that can open this door night or day, lad! -- and welcome!"

These were strange words to the homeless boy's ears, and the nicest he had ever heard. He could not remember that the word "welcome" had ever been used for him before. The door was quickly unlocked, and he entered. Huck was given a seat and the old man and his two tall sons quickly got dressed.

"Now, my boy, I hope you're good and hungry, because breakfast will be ready as soon as the sun's up, and we'll have a hot one -- don't worry about that! The boys and I hoped you'd show up and stop here last night."

"I was very scared," said Huck, "and I ran. I left when the pistols went off, and I didn't stop for three miles. I've come now because I wanted to know about it, you know; and I came before daylight because I didn't want to run into those men, even if they were dead."

"Well, poor boy, you do look as if you've had a hard night of it -- but there's a bed here for you when you've had your breakfast. No, they aren't dead, lad -- we're sorry enough for that. You see we knew right where to find them from your description; so we crept along on tiptoe till we got within fifteen feet of them -- dark as a cellar that sumac path was -- and just then I found I was going to sneeze. It was the worst luck! I tried to hold it back, but no use -- it came! I was in the lead with my pistol ready, and when the sneeze started those criminals moving to get out of the path, I shouted, 'Fire, boys!' and fired where the movement was. So did the boys. But they got away in a flash, those criminals, and we ran after them, down through the woods. I don't think we hit them. They each fired a shot as they ran, but their bullets missed us. As soon as we lost the sound of their feet we stopped chasing, and went down and woke up the police. They got a group of men together, and went to guard the riverbank, and as soon as it is light the sheriff and a group are going to search the woods. My boys will be with them soon. I wish we had some kind of description of those men -- it would help a great deal. But you couldn't see what they looked like, in the dark, lad, I suppose?"

"Oh yes; I saw them downtown and followed them."

"Excellent! Describe them -- describe them, my boy!"

"One's the old deaf and dumb Spaniard that's been around here once or twice, and the other is a mean-looking, ragged --"

"That's enough, lad, we know the men! We ran into them in the woods behind the widow's one day, and they slipped away. Off with you, boys, and tell the sheriff -- get your breakfast tomorrow morning!"

The Welshman's sons left immediately. As they were going out the door Huck jumped up and exclaimed:

"Oh, please don't tell ANYbody it was me that told on them! Oh, please!"

"All right if you say so, Huck, but you deserve the credit for what you did."

"Oh no, no! Please don't tell!"

When the young men were gone, the old Welshman said:

"They won't tell -- and I won't. But why don't you want it known?"

Huck would not explain, other than to say that he already knew too much about one of those men and would not want the man to know that he knew anything against him for the whole world -- he would be killed for knowing it, certainly.

The old man promised secrecy again, and said:

"How did you come to follow these men, lad? Were they acting suspiciously?"

Huck was silent while he prepared a careful reply. Then he said:

"Well, you see, I'm kind of a troublesome sort -- at least everybody says so, and I don't argue with it -- and sometimes I can't sleep much, thinking about it and trying to start a new way of doing things. That was the way last night. I couldn't sleep, and so I came up the street around midnight, thinking it all over, and when I got to that old broken brick store by the Temperance Tavern, I leaned against the wall to think some more. Well, just then along came these two men slipping close by me, with something under their arm, and I figured they'd stolen it. One was smoking, and the other wanted a light; so they stopped right in front of me and the matches lit up their faces and I saw that the big one was the deaf and dumb Spaniard, by his white whiskers and the patch on his eye, and the other one was a rough, ragged-looking man."

"Could you see the rags by the light of the matches?"

This surprised Huck for a moment. Then he said:

"Well, I don't know -- but somehow it seems as if I did."

"Then they went on, and you --"

"Followed them -- yes. That was it. I wanted to see what was going on -- they were sneaking along so. I tracked them to the widow's steps, and stood in the dark and heard the ragged one beg for the widow's life, and the Spaniard swear he'd hurt her the way I told you and your two --"

"What! The DEAF AND DUMB man said all that!"

Huck had made another terrible mistake! He was doing his best to stop the old man from getting the slightest hint of who the Spaniard might be, and yet his tongue seemed determined to get him into trouble in spite of everything. He tried several times to get out of the problem, but the old man's eye was on him and he made mistake after mistake. Presently the Welshman said:

"My boy, don't be afraid of me. I wouldn't hurt a hair of your head for anything in the world. No -- I'd protect you -- I'd protect you. This Spaniard is not deaf and dumb; you let that slip out without meaning to; you can't take that back now. You know something about that Spaniard that you want to keep secret. Now trust me -- tell me what it is, and trust me -- I won't betray you."

Huck looked into the old man's honest eyes for a moment, then leaned over and whispered in his ear:

"It isn't a Spaniard -- it's Injun Joe!"

The Welshman almost jumped out of his chair. In a moment he said:

"It all makes sense now. When you talked about cutting noses and ears I thought that was your own addition, because white men don't take revenge that way. But a Native American! That's a completely different matter."

During breakfast the conversation continued, and at one point the old man said that the last thing he and his sons had done before going to bed was to take a lantern and look at the steps and the area around them for signs of blood. They found none, but caught a large bundle of --

"Of WHAT?"

If the words had been lightning they could not have jumped with more shocking suddenness from Huck's pale lips. His eyes were wide now, and he held his breath -- waiting for the answer. The Welshman stared -- looked at Huck closely -- three seconds -- five seconds -- ten -- then replied:

"Of burglar's tools. Why, what's the MATTER with you?"

Huck sank back, breathing softly but deeply, unspeakably grateful. The Welshman studied him seriously and curiously -- and then said:

"Yes, burglar's tools. That seems to calm you down quite a bit. But what gave you that reaction? What were YOU expecting we'd found?"

Huck was in a difficult position -- the questioning eye was on him -- he would have given anything for a believable answer -- nothing came to him -- the eye was looking deeper and deeper -- a silly reply came to mind -- there was no time to think about it, so he said it at once -- weakly:

"Sunday school books, maybe."

Poor Huck was too worried to smile, but the old man laughed loud and happily, shook with laughter from head to foot, and ended by saying that such a laugh was valuable to a man because it saved money on doctors. Then he added:

"Poor old fellow, you're pale and exhausted -- you aren't at all well -- no wonder you're a little confused and off balance. But you'll recover. Rest and sleep will fix you up all right, I hope."

Huck was annoyed to think he had been such a fool and shown such obvious excitement, for he had already stopped thinking that the parcel brought from the tavern was the treasure, as soon as he had heard the talk at the widow's steps. He had only thought it might not be the treasure -- he had not been certain it wasn't -- and so the mention of a captured bundle was too much for his self-control. But on the whole he was glad the little event had happened, for now he knew beyond all doubt that that bundle was NOT the bundle, and so his mind was at rest and very comfortable. In fact, everything seemed to be going in the right direction; the treasure must still be in No. 2, the men would be caught and jailed that day, and he and Tom could take the gold that night without any trouble or fear of interruption.

Just as breakfast was finished there was a knock at the door. Huck quickly found a hiding place, for he had no wish to be connected in any way with the recent events. The Welshman let in several ladies and gentlemen, among them the Widow Douglas, and noticed that groups of townspeople were climbing up the hill to look at the steps. So the news had spread. The Welshman had to tell the story of the night to the visitors. The widow's gratitude for her safety was openly expressed.

"Don't say a word about it, madam. There's another that you owe more to than you do to me and my boys, perhaps, but he doesn't allow me to give his name. We wouldn't have been there except for him."

Of course this created such curiosity that it almost overshadowed the main matter -- but the Welshman let the visitors wonder, and through them it would be passed on to the whole town, for he refused to share his secret. When all else had been discussed, the widow said:

"I was reading in bed and slept straight through all that noise. Why didn't you come and wake me?"

"We decided it wasn't worth it. Those men were unlikely to come again -- they had no tools left to work with, and what was the point of waking you and scaring you to death? My three workers kept watch at your house for the rest of the night. They've just come back."

More visitors came, and the story had to be told and retold for another couple of hours.

There was no Sunday school during the school vacation, but everyone came early to church. The exciting event was greatly discussed. News came that there was no sign yet of the two criminals. When the service was finished, Judge Thatcher's wife came up alongside of Mrs. Harper as she walked out with the crowd and said:

"Is my Becky going to sleep all day? I just expected she would be very tired."

"Your Becky?"

"Yes," with a startled look -- "didn't she stay with you last night?"

"Why, no."

Mrs. Thatcher went pale, and sank into a church seat, just as Aunt Polly, talking quickly with a friend, passed by. Aunt Polly said:

"Good morning, Mrs. Thatcher. Good morning, Mrs. Harper. I've got a boy who's turned up missing. I reckon my Tom stayed at your house last night -- one of you. And now he's afraid to come to church. I've got to deal with him."

Mrs. Thatcher shook her head weakly and went paler than ever.

"He didn't stay with us," said Mrs. Harper, beginning to look uneasy. A clear worry came into Aunt Polly's face.

"Joe Harper, have you seen my Tom this morning?"

"No, ma'am."

"When did you see him last?"

Joe tried to remember, but was not sure he could say. The people had stopped walking out of church. Whispers passed along, and a feeling of approaching trouble came over every face. Children were anxiously questioned, and young teachers too. They all said they had not noticed whether Tom and Becky were on the ferryboat on the way home; it was dark; no one had thought to check if anyone was missing. One young man finally suddenly said he was afraid they were still in the cave! Mrs. Thatcher fainted. Aunt Polly fell to crying and clasping her hands.

The alarm spread from person to person, from group to group, from street to street, and within five minutes the bells were ringing wildly and the whole town was awake! The Cardiff Hill story was instantly forgotten, the criminals were forgotten, horses were saddled, small boats were manned, the ferryboat was called out, and before the panic was half an hour old, two hundred men were rushing down road and river toward the cave.

All the long afternoon the village seemed empty and lifeless. Many women visited Aunt Polly and Mrs. Thatcher and tried to comfort them. They cried with them too, and that helped more than words. All through the long night the town waited for news; but when morning finally came, all the word that arrived was, "Send more candles -- and send food." Mrs. Thatcher was nearly out of her mind; and Aunt Polly too. Judge Thatcher sent messages of hope and encouragement from the cave, but they brought no real comfort.

The old Welshman came home toward daylight, covered in candle wax and clay, and almost completely worn out. He found Huck still in the bed that had been provided for him, speaking incoherently with fever. The doctors were all at the cave, so the Widow Douglas came and took charge of the patient. She said she would do her best for him, because whether he was good, bad, or in between, he was God's child, and nothing belonging to God was to be ignored. The Welshman said Huck had good qualities, and the widow said:

"You can count on it. That's the mark of the Lord. He doesn't leave it off. He never does. He puts it somewhere on every creature that comes from His hands."

In the early morning hours, groups of tired men began to walk slowly back into the village, but the strongest citizens continued searching. All the news that could be gathered was that the remote parts of the cave were being thoroughly searched, areas that had never been visited before; that every corner and crack was going to be carefully examined; that wherever one wandered through the maze of passages, lights could be seen moving quickly here and there in the distance, and shouts and gunshots sent their hollow echoes through the dark tunnels. In one place, far from the section usually visited by tourists, the names "BECKY & TOM" had been found written on the rock wall with candle smoke, and near it a piece of ribbon covered in candle grease. Mrs. Thatcher recognized the ribbon and cried over it. She said it was the last reminder she would ever have of her child; and that no other reminder could ever be so precious, because this one had last touched the living body before death came. Some said that now and then, deep in the cave, a faint light would appear, and then a great shout would ring out and many men would rush down the echoing tunnel -- and then always a terrible disappointment followed; the children were not there; it was only a searcher's candle.

Three dreadful days and nights dragged slowly by, and the village fell into a state of hopeless shock. No one had spirit for anything. The unexpected discovery that the owner of the Temperance Tavern kept whiskey on his property barely affected the public mood, enormous as the revelation was. During a clear moment, Huck weakly brought up the subject of taverns, and finally asked -- fearing the worst -- if anything had been discovered at the Temperance Tavern since he had been ill.

"Yes," said the widow.

Huck sat up in bed, eyes wide with alarm:

"What? What was it?"

"Liquor! -- and the place has been closed. Lie down, child -- what a start you gave me!"

"Only tell me just one thing -- only just one -- please! Was it Tom Sawyer that found it?"

The widow burst into tears. "Hush, hush, child, hush! I've told you before, you must NOT talk. You are very, very sick!"

So nothing but liquor had been found; there would have been a great commotion if it had been the gold. So the treasure was gone forever -- gone forever! But why was she crying? It was strange that she should cry.

These thoughts worked their way through Huck's confused mind, and under the weariness they brought he fell asleep. The widow said to herself:

"There -- he's asleep, poor worn-out boy. Tom Sawyer find it! I wish somebody could find Tom Sawyer! Ah, there aren't many left now with enough hope, or enough strength, to go on searching."