WHEN Tom woke up in the morning, he wondered where he was. He sat up and rubbed his eyes and looked around. Then he remembered. It was the cool gray dawn, and there was a lovely sense of rest and peace in the deep, wide calm and silence of the woods. Not a leaf moved; not a sound broke Nature's quiet. Round drops of water rested on the leaves and grass. A white layer of ashes covered the fire, and a thin line of blue smoke rose straight up into the air. Joe and Huck were still sleeping.

Now, far away in the woods a bird called; another answered; then the tapping of a woodpecker was heard. Slowly the cool gray morning grew lighter, and the sounds grew with it and life appeared. The wonder of Nature waking up and starting the day presented itself to the thoughtful boy. A little green worm came crawling over a wet leaf, lifting two thirds of his body into the air from time to time and "smelling around," then going on again -- for he was measuring, Tom said; and when the worm came toward him, Tom sat as still as a stone, with his hopes rising and falling as the creature came closer or seemed about to go elsewhere; and when at last it paused for a painful moment with its curved body in the air and then came clearly down upon Tom's leg and began a journey over him, his whole heart was glad -- for that meant that he was going to have a new suit of clothes -- without a doubt a fine pirate uniform. Now a line of ants appeared from nowhere in particular, and went about their work; one struggled bravely along with a dead spider five times its own size in its arms, and pulled it straight up a tree trunk. A brown spotted ladybug climbed the great height of a grass blade, and Tom bent down close to it and said, "Ladybug, ladybug, fly away home, your house is on fire, your children's alone," and she flew off to see about it -- which did not surprise the boy, for he knew that this insect was easily fooled about fires, and he had tricked it before. A dung beetle came next, pushing hard at its ball, and Tom touched the creature to see it pull its legs against its body and pretend to be dead. The birds were making a lot of noise by this time. A catbird, the Northern mockingbird, sat in a tree over Tom's head, and sang sweetly, copying her neighbors in a burst of enjoyment; then a sharp jay swept down, a flash of blue, and stopped on a branch almost within the boy's reach, tilted his head to one side and studied the strangers with great curiosity; a gray squirrel and a big fox squirrel came running along, stopping sometimes to look and chatter at the boys, for the wild animals had probably never seen a human being before and hardly knew whether to be afraid or not. All of Nature was wide awake and active now; long beams of sunlight came down through the thick leaves far and near, and a few butterflies appeared on the scene.

Tom woke up the other pirates and they all rushed away with a shout, and in a minute or two were undressed and chasing each other and tumbling in the shallow clear water of the white sandbar. They did not miss the little village sleeping in the distance beyond the wide stretch of water. A current or a slight rise in the river had carried off their raft, but this only pleased them, since its disappearance was like burning the bridge between them and civilization.

They came back to camp feeling very refreshed, cheerful, and very hungry; and they soon had the camp fire burning again. Huck found a spring of clear cold water nearby, and the boys made cups from broad oak or hickory leaves, and felt that water, made special by such a wild setting, would be a good enough replacement for coffee. While Joe was cutting bacon for breakfast, Tom and Huck asked him to wait a minute; they stepped to a good spot on the riverbank and threw in their fishing lines; almost immediately they had success. Joe had not had time to become impatient before they were back again with some nice bass, a couple of sunfish and a small catfish -- enough food for a whole family. They fried the fish with the bacon, and were amazed; for no fish had ever tasted so good before. They did not know that the sooner a fresh-water fish is put on the fire after it is caught the better it is; and they also did not think about what a difference sleeping outside, exercising outside, bathing, and being very hungry makes.

They rested in the shade after breakfast, while Huck had a smoke, and then went through the woods on an exploration trip. They walked happily along, over rotting logs, through tangled bushes, among tall, ancient trees of the forest, covered from top to bottom with long hanging grape vines. Now and then they came upon nice, hidden spots covered with grass and decorated with flowers.

They found plenty of things to be pleased about, but nothing to be amazed at. They found out that the island was about three miles long and a quarter of a mile wide, and that the nearest shore was only separated from it by a narrow channel barely two hundred yards wide. They swam about every hour, so it was close to the middle of the afternoon when they got back to camp. They were too hungry to stop to fish, but they ate very well on cold ham, and then lay down in the shade to talk. But the talk soon slowed down, and then stopped. The stillness, the seriousness that hung in the woods, and the feeling of loneliness began to affect the boys' moods. They fell to thinking. A kind of unclear longing crept over them. This took shape slowly -- it was growing homesickness. Even Finn the Red-Handed was thinking about his doorsteps and empty barrels. But they were all ashamed of their weakness, and none was brave enough to speak his thought.

For some time, the boys had been vaguely aware of a strange sound in the distance, the way one sometimes notices the ticking of a clock without really paying attention. But now this mysterious sound became more noticeable, and made them listen. The boys sat up, looked at each other, and then each one listened carefully. There was a long silence, deep and unbroken; then a deep, low boom came floating down out of the distance.

"What is it!" exclaimed Joe, quietly.

"I wonder," said Tom in a whisper.

"It's not thunder," said Huckleberry, in an awed voice, "because thunder --"

"Listen!" said Tom. "Listen -- don't talk."

They waited what felt like a very long time, and then the same low boom disturbed the quiet again.

"Let's go and see."

They jumped to their feet and hurried to the shore toward the town. They pushed aside the bushes on the bank and looked out over the water. The little steam ferryboat was about a mile below the village, moving with the current. Her wide deck seemed crowded with people. There were many small boats rowing around or floating near the ferryboat, but the boys could not tell what the men in them were doing. Suddenly a large jet of white smoke came from the ferryboat's side, and as it spread out and rose in a lazy cloud, that same low sound reached the listeners again.

"I know now!" exclaimed Tom; "somebody has drowned!"

"That's it!" said Huck; "they did that last summer, when Bill Turner got drowned; they shoot a cannon over the water, and that makes him come up to the surface. Yes, and they put quicksilver in loaves of bread and set them floating, and wherever there's anybody that's drowned, they'll float right there and stop."

"Yes, I've heard about that," said Joe. "I wonder what makes the bread do that."

"Oh, it isn't the bread, so much," said Tom; "I think it's mostly what they SAY over it before they start it out."

"But they don't say anything over it," said Huck. "I've seen them and they don't."

"Well, that's strange," said Tom. "But maybe they say it to themselves. Of COURSE they do. Anybody would know that."

The other boys agreed that Tom had a point, because a simple piece of bread, without being instructed by a magic spell, could not be expected to act very cleverly when sent on such an important task.

"Gosh, I wish I was over there, now," said Joe.

"Me too," said Huck. "I'd give a lot to know who it is."

The boys kept listening and watching. Suddenly a clear thought flashed through Tom's mind, and he exclaimed:

"Boys, I know who's drowned -- it's us!"

They felt like heroes in an instant. Here was a great victory; they were missed; they were being mourned; hearts were breaking on their account; tears were being shed; guilty memories of unkindness to these poor lost boys were coming up, and useless sadness and regret were taking over; and best of all, the missing boys were the talk of the whole town, and the envy of all the other boys, as far as this amazing fame was concerned. This was wonderful. It was worth being a pirate, after all.

As evening came, the ferryboat returned to her normal work and the small boats disappeared. The pirates went back to camp. They were very proud and pleased about their new importance and the famous trouble they were causing. They caught fish, cooked supper and ate it, and then fell to guessing at what the village was thinking and saying about them; and the pictures they created of public sadness on their account were very pleasant to imagine -- from their point of view. But when darkness closed around them, they gradually stopped talking, and sat staring into the fire, with their minds clearly wandering elsewhere. The excitement was gone now, and Tom and Joe could not stop thinking about certain people at home who were not enjoying this adventure as much as they were. Worrying thoughts came; they grew troubled and unhappy; a sigh or two escaped without them noticing. After a while Joe carefully suggested a vague idea about how the others might feel about returning to civilization -- not right now, but --

Tom mocked him! Huck, who had not committed to anything yet, joined with Tom, and the hesitating one quickly explained himself, and was glad to escape the situation with as little sign of cowardly homesickness as possible. Disagreement was effectively stopped for the moment.

As the night grew deeper, Huck began to nod, and then to snore. Joe followed next. Tom lay on his elbow without moving for some time, watching the two closely. At last he got up carefully, on his knees, and went searching among the grass and the flickering reflections from the camp fire. He picked up and looked at several large half-circles of thin white bark from a sycamore tree, and finally chose two which seemed to suit him. Then he knelt by the fire and carefully wrote something on each of these with his "red pencil"; one he rolled up and put in his jacket pocket, and the other he put in Joe's hat and moved it a little distance from the owner. And he also put into the hat certain schoolboy treasures of almost great value -- among them a piece of chalk, a rubber ball, three fish hooks, and one of that kind of marbles known as a "real crystal." Then he walked carefully on his toes among the trees until he felt he was out of hearing range, and immediately broke into a fast run toward the sandbar.