TOM's mind was made up now. He was sad and had no hope. He was a lonely boy with no friends, he said; nobody loved him; when they found out what they had made him do, maybe they would be sorry; he had tried to do right and get along, but they would not let him; since nothing would do but for them to get rid of him, let it be so; and let them blame HIM for what happened -- why shouldn't they? What right did a friendless person have to complain? Yes, they had finally pushed him to it: he would live a life of crime. There was no other choice.

By this time he was far down Meadow Lane, and the bell for school to "begin" rang faintly in his ear. He cried now, thinking he would never, never hear that old familiar sound again -- it was very hard, but it was forced on him; since he was pushed out into the cold world, he had to accept it -- but he forgave them. Then the tears came thick and fast.

Just at this point he met his best friend, Joe Harper -- with a serious face, and clearly with a great and sad plan in his heart. It was plain that here were "two people with the same idea." Tom, wiping his eyes with his sleeve, began to say something about a decision to escape from bad treatment and the lack of kindness at home by going out into the big world and never returning; and ended by hoping that Joe would not forget him.

But it turned out that this was exactly what Joe had been planning to ask Tom, and he had come to find him for that reason. His mother had hit him for drinking some cream which he had never touched and knew nothing about; it was clear that she was tired of him and wanted him to go; if she felt that way, there was nothing for him to do but accept it; he hoped she would be happy, and never be sorry for sending her poor boy out into the cruel world to suffer and die.

As the two boys walked along feeling sad, they made a new promise to stand by each other and be brothers and never separate until death took away their troubles. Then they began to make their plans. Joe wanted to be a loner, living on scraps in a faraway cave, and dying someday of cold and hunger and grief; but after listening to Tom, he agreed that a life of crime had some clear advantages, and so he agreed to become a pirate.

Three miles below St. Petersburg, at a place where the Mississippi River was a little over a mile wide, there was a long, narrow, wooded island, with a shallow bank at one end, and this was a good meeting place. Nobody lived there; it lay far over toward the other shore, next to a thick and almost completely empty forest. So Jackson's Island was chosen. Who they would rob was something they did not think about. Then they found Huckleberry Finn, and he joined them right away, for all careers were the same to him; he did not care. They soon separated to meet at a lonely spot on the riverbank two miles above the village at their favorite time -- which was midnight. There was a small log raft there which they planned to take. Each would bring hooks and lines, and food that he could steal in the most secret and mysterious way -- as was right for outlaws. And before the afternoon was over, they had all enjoyed the pleasure of spreading the news that soon the town would "hear something." All who got this vague hint were told to "stay quiet and wait."

Around midnight Tom arrived with a boiled ham and a few small things, and stopped in a thick group of bushes on a small cliff above the meeting place. It was starlight, and very still. The great river lay like an ocean at rest. Tom listened for a moment, but no sound broke the quiet. Then he gave a low, clear whistle. It was answered from under the cliff. Tom whistled two more times; these signals were answered the same way. Then a careful voice said:

"Who goes there?"

"Tom Sawyer, the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main. Say your names."

"Huck Finn the Red-Handed, and Joe Harper the Terror of the Seas." Tom had made up these titles from his favorite books.

"Good. Give the secret word."

Two rough whispers said the same terrible word at the same time into the quiet night:

"BLOOD!"

Then Tom pushed his ham over the cliff and climbed down after it, tearing both his skin and his clothes in the process. There was an easy, comfortable path along the shore under the cliff, but it lacked the difficulty and danger that a pirate liked.

The Terror of the Seas had brought a side of bacon, and had almost worn himself out getting it there. Finn the Red-Handed had stolen a frying pan and some partly dried tobacco leaves, and had also brought a few corn cobs to make pipes with. But none of the pirates smoked or chewed except himself. The Black Avenger of the Spanish Main said it would never do to start without some fire. That was a smart thought; matches were almost unknown there in those days. They saw a fire burning slowly on a large raft a hundred yards away, and they quietly went there and took a burning piece of wood. They made it into an exciting adventure, saying "Quiet!" every now and then, and suddenly stopping with a finger on their lips; moving with hands on pretend knife handles; and giving orders in gloomy whispers that if "the enemy" moved, to "stab him," because "dead men tell no tales." They knew very well that the raft workers were all down in the village buying things or having fun, but that was no reason to act in a non-pirate-like way.

They pushed off soon, Tom in command, Huck at the back oar and Joe at the front. Tom stood in the middle, frowning, with folded arms, and gave his orders in a low, serious whisper:

"Turn the front of the boat into the wind, and bring her to the wind!"

"Yes, sir!"

"Steady, steady-y-y-y!"

"Steady it is, sir!"

"Let her go off a point!"

"Point it is, sir!"

As the boys steadily moved the raft toward the middle of the river, it was clear that these orders were given only for show, and were not meant to mean anything in particular.

"What sail's she carrying?"

"Courses, topsails, and flying-jib, sir."

"Send the royals up! Climb up high, there, half a dozen of ye -- foretopmaststuns'l! Quickly, now!"

"Yes, sir!"

"Shake out that maintopgallantsail! Sheets and braces! NOW my friends!"

"Yes, sir!"

"Turn the rudder to the left -- hard a port! Stand by to meet her when she comes! Port, port! NOW, men! With effort! Stead-y-y-y!"

"Steady it is, sir!"

The raft moved past the middle of the river; the boys pointed her head straight, and then rested their oars. The river was not high, so there was only a two or three mile current. Almost nothing was said during the next three quarters of an hour. Now the raft was passing the distant town. Two or three faint lights showed where it lay, sleeping peacefully, beyond the wide sweep of star-lit water, not knowing about the huge event that was happening. The Black Avenger stood still with folded arms, "seeing for the last time" the place of his former joys and his recent sufferings, and wishing "she" could see him now, out on the wild sea, facing danger and death with a brave heart, going to his fate with a grim smile on his lips. It only took a little imagination to move Jackson's Island out of view of the village, and so he "looked his last" with a sad and satisfied heart. The other pirates were also looking their last; and they all looked so long that they almost let the current carry them past the island. But they noticed the danger in time, and managed to prevent it. Around two o'clock in the morning the raft ran aground on the sandbar two hundred yards above the top of the island, and they waded back and forth until they had brought their supplies to shore. Part of the small raft's items included an old sail, and this they spread over a space in the bushes as a tent to protect their food; but they themselves would sleep outside under the open sky, as was right for outlaws.

They built a fire against the side of a large log twenty or thirty steps inside the dark forest, and then cooked some bacon in the frying pan for supper, and used up half of the corn bread they had brought. It seemed wonderful to eat in that wild, free way in the new forest of an unexplored and empty island, far from the places where people live, and they said they would never return to civilization. The rising fire lit up their faces and threw its red light on the straight tree trunks of their forest and on the shiny leaves and hanging vines.

When the last crisp slice of bacon was gone, and the last piece of corn bread eaten, the boys stretched out on the grass, full of happiness. They could have found a cooler place, but they did not want to give up such a dramatic feature as the hot camp fire.

"AIN'T it great?" said Joe.

"It's awesome!" said Tom. "What would the boys say if they could see us?"

"Say? Well, they'd just want to be here -- hey, Hucky!"

"I guess so," said Huckleberry; "anyway, I'm happy. I don't want anything better than this. I don't ever get enough to eat usually -- and here they can't come and pick on a fellow and bother him so."

"It's just the life for me," said Tom. "You don't have to get up in the mornings, and you don't have to go to school, and wash, and all that annoying stuff. You see a pirate doesn't have to do ANYTHING, Joe, when he's on shore, but a loner HAS to be praying a lot, and then he doesn't have any fun anyway, all by himself that way."

"Oh yes, that's so," said Joe, "but I hadn't thought much about it, you know. I'd much rather be a pirate, now that I've tried it."

"You see," said Tom, "people don't care much about hermits nowadays, like they used to in old times, but a pirate's always respected. And a hermit's got to sleep on the hardest place he can find, and put sackcloth and ashes on his head, and stand out in the rain, and --"

"What does he put sackcloth and ashes on his head for?" asked Huck.

"I don't know. But they've GOT to do it. Hermits always do. You'd have to do that if you were a hermit."

"I wouldn't do it," said Huck.

"Well, what would you do?"

"I don't know. But I wouldn't do that."

"Why, Huck, you'd HAVE to. How would you get around it?"

"Why, I just wouldn't stand it. I'd run away."

"Run away! Well, you WOULD be a terrible hermit. You'd be a disgrace."

Huck said nothing, being too busy. He had finished making a pipe from a corn cob, and now he fitted a weed stem into it, filled it with tobacco, and was pressing a burning coal to the tobacco and blowing out a cloud of pleasant-smelling smoke -- he was completely happy and content. The other pirates wished they had this great habit, and secretly decided to learn it soon. Presently Huck said:

"What do pirates have to do?"

Tom said:

"Oh, they have a great time -- take ships and burn them, and get the money and bury it in scary places on their island where there are ghosts and things to guard it, and kill everybody on the ships -- make them walk a plank."

"And they carry the women to the island," said Joe; "they don't kill the women."

"No," agreed Tom, "they don't kill the women -- they're too noble. And the women are always beautiful, too."

"And don't they wear the best clothes! Oh yes! All gold and silver and diamonds," said Joe, with excitement.

"Who?" said Huck.

"Why, the pirates."

Huck looked at his own clothes sadly.

"I don't think I'm dressed right for a pirate," said he, with a sad voice; "but I don't have anything else."

But the other boys told him the fine clothes would come quickly enough after they began their adventures. They made him understand that his poor clothes were fine to start with, though it was normal for wealthy pirates to begin with a proper set of clothes.

Gradually their talk faded and sleepiness began to come over the eyelids of the little wandering children. The pipe dropped from the fingers of the Red-Handed, and he slept the sleep of the innocent and the tired. The Terror of the Seas and the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main had more difficulty falling asleep. They said their prayers to themselves, lying down, since there was nobody there to make them kneel and say them out loud; in truth, they thought about not saying them at all, but they were afraid to go that far, in case they might bring down a sudden and special thunderbolt from heaven. Then right away they got close to the edge of sleep -- but an unwanted thought came that would not go away. It was their conscience. They began to feel a vague fear that they had done wrong by running away; and next they thought of the stolen meat, and then the real pain came. They tried to dismiss it by reminding themselves that they had stolen sweets and apples many times before; but their conscience was not satisfied by such weak reasons; it seemed to them, in the end, that there was no getting around the hard fact that taking sweets was only "light stealing," while taking bacon and ham and such valuable items was plain simple stealing -- and there was a rule against that in the Bible. So they privately decided that as long as they stayed in the business, their pirating would not be ruined again by the crime of stealing. Then their conscience let them rest, and these strangely mixed-up pirates fell peacefully to sleep.