MONDAY morning found Tom Sawyer unhappy. Monday morning always found him so -- because it began another week's slow suffering in school. He generally began that day wishing he had had no holiday in between, as it made going back to his captivity and chains again so much more painful.

Tom lay thinking. Soon it occurred to him that he wished he was sick; then he could stay home from school. Here was a small opportunity. He examined how his body felt. No sickness was found, and he looked again. This time he thought he could notice symptoms of a stomach ache, and he began to encourage them with considerable hope. But they soon grew weak, and quickly died away entirely. He thought some more. Suddenly he discovered something. One of his upper front teeth was loose. This was lucky; he was about to begin to groan, as a "way to start," as he called it, when it occurred to him that if he used that as his reason, his aunt would pull it out, and that would hurt. So he decided to keep the tooth in reserve for the moment, and look for something else. Nothing appeared for some little time, and then he remembered hearing the doctor talk about a certain illness that kept a patient in bed for two or three weeks and threatened to make him lose a finger. So the boy eagerly pulled his sore toe out from under the sheet and held it up for inspection. But now he did not know the necessary symptoms. However, it seemed worth trying, so he fell to groaning with considerable energy.

But Sid slept on without knowing.

Tom groaned louder, and imagined that he began to feel pain in the toe.

No reaction from Sid.

Tom was breathing hard with his efforts by this time. He rested and then took a deep breath and let out a series of excellent groans.

Sid snored on.

Tom was annoyed. He said, "Sid, Sid!" and shook him. This worked, and Tom began to groan again. Sid yawned, stretched, then raised himself up on his elbow with a start, and began to stare at Tom. Tom went on groaning. Sid said:

"Tom! Say, Tom!" [No response.] "Here, Tom! TOM! What is the matter, Tom?" And he shook him and looked in his face with worry.

Tom moaned out:

"Oh, don't, Sid. Don't shake me."

"Why, what's the matter, Tom? I must call auntie."

"No -- never mind. It'll be over soon, maybe. Don't call anybody."

"But I must! DON'T groan so, Tom, it's awful. How long have you been this way?"

"Hours. Ouch! Oh, don't stir so, Sid, you'll kill me."

"Tom, why didn't you wake me sooner? Oh, Tom, DON'T! It makes my flesh creep to hear you. Tom, what is the matter?"

"I forgive you everything, Sid. [Groan.] Everything you've ever done to me. When I'm gone --"

"Oh, Tom, you aren't dying, are you? Don't, Tom -- oh, don't. Maybe --"

"I forgive everybody, Sid. [Groan.] Tell them so, Sid. And Sid, you give my window frame and my one-eyed cat to that new girl that's come to town, and tell her --"

But Sid had grabbed his clothes and gone. Tom was suffering in reality now, so well was his imagination working, and so his groans had taken on quite a real tone.

Sid flew downstairs and said:

"Oh, Aunt Polly, come! Tom's dying!"

"Dying!"

"Yes. Don't wait -- come quickly!"

"Nonsense! I don't believe it!"

But she rushed upstairs nonetheless, with Sid and Mary at her heels. And her face grew white, too, and her lip trembled. When she reached the bedside she breathed heavily:

"You, Tom! Tom, what's the matter with you?"

"Oh, auntie, I'm --"

"What's the matter with you -- what is the matter with you, child?"

"Oh, auntie, my sore toe's rotting away!"

The old lady sank down into a chair and laughed a little, then cried a little, then did both together. This calmed her and she said:

"Tom, what a scare you gave me. Now you stop that nonsense and climb out of bed."

The groans ceased and the pain vanished from the toe. The boy felt a little foolish, and he said:

"Aunt Polly, it SEEMED to be rotting away, and it hurt so much I never thought about my tooth at all."

"Your tooth, indeed! What's the matter with your tooth?"

"One of them's loose, and it aches terribly."

"There, there, now, don't begin that groaning again. Open your mouth. Well -- your tooth IS loose, but you're not going to die from that. Mary, get me a silk thread, and a piece of burning wood from the kitchen."

Tom said:

"Oh, please, auntie, don't pull it out. It doesn't hurt any more. I promise it doesn't. Please don't, auntie. I don't want to stay home from school."

"Oh, you don't, don't you? So all this noise was because you thought you'd get to stay home from school and go fishing? Tom, Tom, I love you so, and you seem to try every way you can to break my old heart with your terrible behavior." By this time the tools for the tooth were ready. The old lady tied one end of the silk thread to Tom's tooth with a loop and tied the other end to the bedpost. Then she seized the piece of burning wood and suddenly thrust it almost into the boy's face. The tooth hung swinging from the bedpost, now.

But all trials bring their good parts. As Tom walked slowly to school after breakfast, he was the object of envy of every boy he met because the gap in his upper row of teeth let him spit in a new and impressive way. He gathered quite a crowd of interested boys around him; and one who had cut his finger and had been a center of attention and respect up to this time, now found himself suddenly without any followers, and stripped of his fame. His heart was heavy, and he said with a look of dislike that it was nothing to spit like Tom Sawyer; but another boy said, "Sour grapes!" and he wandered away in disgrace.

Soon Tom came upon the young outcast of the village, Huckleberry Finn, son of the town drunkard. Huckleberry was genuinely disliked and feared by all the mothers of the town, because he was idle and without rules and rude and bad -- and because all their children admired him so, and enjoyed his forbidden company, and wished they dared to be like him. Tom was like the rest of the respectable boys, in that he envied Huckleberry his free and rejected condition, and was strictly ordered not to play with him. So he played with him every chance he got. Huckleberry was always dressed in the worn-out clothes of full-grown men, and they were always full of holes and rags. His hat was a huge wreck with a wide crescent cut out of its brim; his coat, when he wore one, hung nearly to his heels and had the back buttons far down the back; but one suspender held up his trousers; the seat of the trousers hung low and contained nothing, the ragged legs dragged in the dirt when not rolled up.

Huckleberry came and went as he pleased. He slept on doorsteps in fine weather and in empty barrels in wet weather; he did not have to go to school or to church, or call any being master or obey anybody; he could go fishing or swimming when and where he chose, and stay as long as it suited him; nobody could stop him from fighting; he could stay up as late as he pleased; he was always the first boy to go barefoot in the spring and the last to wear shoes again in the fall; he never had to wash, nor put on clean clothes; he could swear wonderfully. In a word, everything that makes life enjoyable that boy had. So thought every bothered, restricted, respectable boy in St. Petersburg.

Tom greeted the exciting outcast:

"Hello, Huckleberry!"

"Hello yourself, and see how you like it."

"What's that you've got?"

"Dead cat."

"Let me see him, Huck. My, he's pretty stiff. Where'd you get him?"

"Bought him off a boy."

"What did you give?"

"I gave a blue ticket and a balloon that I got at the slaughter-house."

"Where'd you get the blue ticket?"

"Bought it off Ben Rogers two weeks ago for a hoop-stick."

"Say -- what are dead cats good for, Huck?"

"Good for? Curing warts."

"No! Is that true? I know something that's better."

"I bet you don't. What is it?"

"Why, stump water."

"Stump water! I wouldn't give a thing for stump water."

"You wouldn't, would you? Have you ever tried it?"

"No, I haven't. But Bob Tanner did."

"Who told you so!"

"Why, he told Jeff Thatcher, and Jeff told Johnny Baker, and Johnny told Jim Hollis, and Jim told Ben Rogers, and Ben told a friend, and the friend told me. There now!"

"Well, what of it? They all lie. At least almost all of them do. I don't know the last one. But I never saw a person who WOULDN'T lie. Come on! Now you tell me how Bob Tanner done it, Huck."

"Why, he took and dipped his hand in a rotten stump where the rainwater was."

"In the daytime?"

"Certainly."

"With his face toward the stump?"

"Yes. At least I guess so."

"Did he say anything?"

"I don't think he did. I don't know."

"Ah! Talking about trying to cure warts with stump water in such a stupid way as that! Why, that isn't going to do any good. You've got to go all by yourself, to the middle of the woods, where you know there's a stump with rainwater in it, and just as it's midnight you back up against the stump and put your hand in and say: 'Barley-corn, barley-corn, Indian-meal, Stump-water, stump-water, swallow these warts,' and then walk away quickly, eleven steps, with your eyes shut, and then turn around three times and walk home without speaking to anybody. Because if you speak, the charm is broken."

"Well, that sounds like a good way; but that isn't the way Bob Tanner done it."

"No, sir, you can be sure he didn't, because he's the most warty boy in this town; and he wouldn't have a wart on him if he'd known how to use stump water. I've taken off thousands of warts from my hands that way, Huck. I play with frogs so much that I've always got quite a lot of warts. Sometimes I take them off with a bean."

"Yes, beans are good. I've done that."

"Have you? What's your way?"

"You take and split the bean, and cut the wart to get some blood, and then you put the blood on one piece of the bean and take and dig a hole and bury it about midnight at the crossroads in the dark of the moon, and then you burn up the rest of the bean. You see that piece that has the blood on it will keep pulling and pulling, trying to draw the other piece to it, and so that helps the blood to draw the wart, and pretty soon off it comes."

"Yes, that's it, Huck -- that's it; though when you're burying it if you say 'Down bean; off wart; come no more to bother me!' it's better. That's the way Joe Harper does it, and he's been to Coonville and nearly everywhere. But say -- how do you cure warts with dead cats?"

"Why, you take your cat and go to the graveyard around midnight when somebody that was wicked has been buried; and when it's midnight a devil will come, or maybe two or three, but you can't see them, you can only hear something like the wind, or maybe hear them talk; and when they're taking that person away, you throw your cat after them and say, 'Devil follow the body, cat follow the devil, warts follow cat, I'm done with you!' That'll cure ANY wart."

"Sounds right. Have you ever tried it, Huck?"

"No, but old Mother Hopkins told me."

"Well, I reckon it's true then. Because they say she's a witch."

"Say! Why, Tom, I KNOW she is. She put a spell on my father. Father says so himself. He came along one day, and he saw she was putting a spell on him, so he picked up a rock, and if she hadn't moved quickly, he'd have hit her. Well, that very night he fell off a shed where he was lying drunk, and broke his arm."

"Why, that's awful. How did he know she was putting a spell on him?"

"Lord, father can tell easily. Father says when they keep looking at you steadily, they're putting a spell on you. Especially if they mumble. Because when they mumble they're saying the Lord's Prayer backwards."

"Say, Hucky, when are you going to try the cat?"

"Tonight. I reckon they'll come after old Hoss Williams tonight."

"But they buried him Saturday. Didn't they get him Saturday night?"

"Why, how you talk! How could their charms work until midnight? -- and THEN it's Sunday. Devils don't move around much on a Sunday, I don't think."

"I never thought of that. That's true. Let me come with you?"

"Of course -- if you aren't afraid."

"Afraid! That's not likely. Will you meow?"

"Yes -- and you meow back, if you get a chance. Last time, you kept me meowing around until old Hays started throwing rocks at me and said 'Get rid of that cat!' and so I threw a rock through his window -- but don't you tell."

"I won't. I couldn't meow that night, because auntie was watching me, but I'll meow this time. Say -- what's that?"

"Nothing but a tick."

"Where'd you get him?"

"Out in the woods."

"What'll you take for him?"

"I don't know. I don't want to sell him."

"All right. It's a very small tick, anyway."

"Oh, anybody can find a tick that doesn't belong to them. I'm happy with it. It's a good enough tick for me."

"Come on, there are plenty of ticks. I could have a thousand of them if I wanted to."

"Well, why don't you? Because you know very well you can't. This is an early tick, I think. It's the first one I've seen this year."

"Say, Huck -- I'll give you my tooth for him."

"Let's see it."

Tom took out a piece of paper and carefully unrolled it. Huckleberry looked at it with longing. The temptation was very strong. At last he said:

"Is it real?"

Tom lifted his lip and showed the empty space.

"Well, all right," said Huckleberry, "it's a deal."

Tom put the tick in the small box that had recently been the pinchbug's prison, and the boys separated, each feeling richer than before.

When Tom reached the little isolated wooden schoolhouse, he walked in quickly, with the manner of someone who had come with all possible speed. He hung his hat on a peg and sat himself down in his seat with businesslike eagerness. The master, sitting like a king on high in his great armchair, was dozing, calmed by the sleepy humming sound of studying. The interruption woke him.

"Thomas Sawyer!"

Tom knew that when his name was pronounced in full, it meant trouble.

"Sir!"

"Come up here. Now, sir, why are you late again, as usual?"

Tom was about to tell a lie, when he saw two long pigtails of yellow hair hanging down a back that he recognized by the strong pull of love; and next to that form was THE ONLY EMPTY SEAT on the girls' side of the schoolhouse. He immediately said:

"I STOPPED TO TALK WITH HUCKLEBERRY FINN!"

The master's heart almost stopped, and he stared, unable to act. The hum of studying stopped. The pupils wondered if this reckless boy had lost his mind. The master said:

"You -- you did what?"

"Stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn."

There was no mistaking the words.

"Thomas Sawyer, this is the most shocking thing I have ever heard. A simple stick will not be enough for this offence. Take off your jacket."

The master's arm worked until it was tired and the supply of switches grew noticeably smaller. Then the order followed:

"Now, sir, go and sit with the girls! And let this be a warning to you."

The quiet laughter that spread around the room seemed to embarrass the boy, but in reality that reaction was caused more by his deep admiration for his unknown love and the overwhelming pleasure that lay in his great good fortune. He sat down upon the end of the pine bench and the girl moved quickly away from him with a toss of her head. Pokes and winks and whispers passed through the room, but Tom sat still, with his arms upon the long, low desk before him, and seemed to study his book.

After a while attention moved away from him, and the usual school noise rose upon the dull air once more. Soon the boy began to steal secret glances at the girl. She noticed it, "made a face" at him and gave him the back of her head for about a minute. When she carefully turned around again, a peach lay before her. She pushed it away. Tom gently put it back. She pushed it away again, but with less unfriendliness. Tom patiently returned it to its place. Then she let it remain. Tom wrote on his slate, "Please take it -- I've got more." The girl glanced at the words, but made no sign. Now the boy began to draw something on the slate, hiding his work with his left hand. For a time the girl refused to notice; but her natural curiosity soon began to show itself by barely noticeable signs. The boy worked on, appearing unaware. The girl made a kind of uncertain attempt to see, but the boy did not show that he was aware of it. At last she gave in and whispered hesitantly:

"Let me see it."

Tom partly uncovered a badly drawn picture of a house with two pointed roofs and a spiral of smoke coming from the chimney. Then the girl's interest began to focus itself upon the work and she forgot everything else. When it was finished, she looked at it for a moment, then whispered:

"It's nice -- make a man."

The artist drew a man in the front yard that looked like a long bird. He could have stepped over the house; but the girl was not too concerned with details; she was pleased with the drawing, and whispered:

"It's a beautiful man -- now make me coming along."

Tom drew an hourglass shape with a round head and stick arms and legs and large spread-out fingers with a huge fan. The girl said:

"It's ever so nice -- I wish I could draw."

"It's easy," whispered Tom, "I'll teach you."

"Oh, will you? When?"

"At noon. Do you go home for lunch?"

"I'll stay if you will."

"Good -- it's a deal. What's your name?"

"Becky Thatcher. What's yours? Oh, I know. It's Thomas Sawyer."

"That's the name they use when they're scolding me. I'm Tom when I'm good. You call me Tom, will you?"

"Yes."

Now Tom began to write something on the slate, hiding the words from the girl. But she was not shy this time. She wanted to see. Tom said:

"Oh, it isn't anything."

"Yes it is."

"No it isn't. You don't want to see."

"Yes I do, indeed I do. Please let me."

"You'll tell."

"No I won't -- I promise I really won't."

"You won't tell anybody at all? Ever, as long as you live?"

"No, I won't ever tell ANYbody. Now let me."

"Oh, YOU don't want to see!"

"Now that you treat me so, I WILL see." And she put her small hand upon his and a little struggle followed, Tom pretending to resist in earnest but letting his hand slip by degrees until these words were shown: "I LOVE YOU."

"Oh, you bad thing!" And she hit his hand sharply, but turned red and looked pleased, all the same.

Just at this point the boy felt a slow, heavy grip closing on his ear, and a steady lifting pressure. In that firm hold he was carried across the room and placed back in his own seat, under a shower of giggles from the whole school. Then the master stood over him for a few awful moments, and finally moved away to his chair without saying a word. But although Tom's ear hurt, his heart was full of joy.

As the school quieted down Tom made an honest effort to study, but the confusion within him was too great. In turn he took his place in the reading class and made a mess of it; then in the geography class and turned lakes into mountains, mountains into rivers, and rivers into continents, until total disorder came again; then in the spelling class, and was sent to the bottom of the class by a series of simple baby words, giving up the small medal which he had worn with pride for months.