TOM joined the new group of the Cadets of Temperance, attracted by the impressive look of their "uniform." He promised to stop smoking, chewing tobacco, and swearing as long as he remained a member. Now he discovered something new -- namely, that promising not to do a thing is the surest way in the world to make a person want to go and do that very thing. Tom soon found himself troubled by a strong desire to drink and swear; the desire grew so strong that nothing but the hope of a chance to show off in his red sash kept him from leaving the group. The Fourth of July was coming; but he soon gave that up -- gave it up before he had kept to his restrictions for even forty-eight hours -- and put his hopes on old Judge Frazer, a local official, who was apparently dying and would have a big public funeral, since he was such an important person. For three days Tom worried greatly about the Judge's condition and was hungry for news of it. Sometimes his hopes ran high -- so high that he would dare to get out his uniform and practice in front of the mirror. But the Judge had a very annoying way of getting better again. At last he was said to be improving -- and then recovering. Tom was annoyed; and felt cheated, too. He handed in his resignation at once -- and that night the Judge suffered a setback and died. Tom decided he would never trust a man like that again.

The funeral was a fine event. The Cadets marched in a way designed to make the late member jealous. Tom was a free boy again, however -- there was something good in that. He could drink and swear now -- but found to his surprise that he did not want to. The simple fact that he could, took the desire away, and the appeal of it.

Tom soon began to wonder why his much-wanted vacation was starting to feel a little heavy on his hands.

He attempted to keep a diary -- but nothing happened during three days, and so he gave it up.

The first travelling music show came to town, and created excitement. Tom and Joe Harper started a group of performers and were happy for two days.

Even the Fourth of July was somewhat disappointing, for it rained hard, there was no parade as a result, and the greatest man in the world (as Tom supposed), Mr. Benton, an actual United States Senator, proved a huge disappointment -- for he was not twenty-five feet tall, nor anywhere near it.

A circus came. The boys played circus for three days afterward in tents made of old carpet -- admission, three pins for boys, two for girls -- and then circus was given up.

A man who studies heads and a hypnotist came -- and left the village duller and more boring than ever.

There were some boys-and-girls' parties, but they were so few and so nice that they only made the painful empty times between feel more painful.

Becky Thatcher was gone to stay with her parents during vacation -- so there was no bright side to life anywhere.

The terrible secret of the murder was a constant burden. It was like a wound that never stopped hurting.

Then came the measles.

During two long weeks Tom lay sick, unaware of the world and its events. He was very ill, and interested in nothing. When he finally got up and walked weakly through town, a sad change had come over everything and everyone. There had been a religious awakening, and everybody had "got religion," not only the adults, but even the boys and girls. Tom walked about, hoping to see one cheerful sinful face, but disappointment met him everywhere. He found Joe Harper studying a Bible, and turned sadly away from the discouraging sight. He looked for Ben Rogers, and found him visiting poor people with a basket of religious materials. He hunted up Jim Hollis, who pointed out the great benefit of Tom's recent measles as a warning from God. Every boy he met added another weight to his sadness; and when, in desperation, he finally ran to Huckleberry Finn for comfort and was met with a Bible saying, his heart broke and he crept home and to bed, feeling that he alone of all the town was lost, forever and forever.

And that night there came on a terrible storm, with driving rain, awful thunder and blinding sheets of lightning. He covered his head with the bedclothes and waited in horror for his punishment; for he had no doubt that all this commotion was about him. He believed he had pushed the patience of the powers above to the limit, and that this was the result. It might have seemed excessive to destroy a small insect with such a huge storm, but there seemed nothing strange about getting up such an expensive thunderstorm to punish someone like himself.

By and by the storm used up all its energy and died without achieving its purpose. The boy's first thought was to be grateful, and change his ways. His second was to wait -- for there might not be any more storms.

The next day the doctors were back; Tom had become sick again. The three weeks he spent in bed this time seemed like a whole lifetime. When he got outside at last he was hardly grateful that he had been saved, remembering how lonely his condition was, how without friends and miserable he felt. He walked without purpose down the street and found Jim Hollis acting as judge in a children's trial of a cat for murder, with her victim, a bird, as evidence. He found Joe Harper and Huck Finn up an alley eating a stolen melon. Poor boys! They -- like Tom -- had fallen back into their old ways.