ONE of the reasons why Tom's mind had moved away from its secret worries was that it had found a new and important thing to focus on. Becky Thatcher had stopped coming to school. Tom had struggled with his pride for a few days, and tried to forget her, but failed. He began to find himself hanging around her father's house at night, and feeling very sad. She was ill. What if she should die! There was madness in the thought. He no longer cared about war, nor even about piracy. The pleasure of life was gone; there was nothing but sadness left. He put his hoop away, and his bat; there was no joy in them any more. His aunt was concerned. She began to try all kinds of treatments on him. She was one of those people who are completely absorbed by patent medicines and all new methods of making people healthy or fixing them up. She was a constant experimenter in these things. When something new in this line came out she was very eager, right away, to try it; not on herself, for she was never sick, but on anybody else that was available. She read all the "Health" magazines and fake books; and the great lack of knowledge they were full of was like fresh air to her. All the silly ideas they contained about ventilation, and how to go to bed, and how to get up, and what to eat, and what to drink, and how much exercise to take, and what state of mind to keep one's self in, and what sort of clothing to wear, were all truth to her, and she never noticed that her health magazines of the current month usually cancelled everything they had recommended the month before. She was as honest and good-hearted as the day was long, and so she was an easy person to deceive. She gathered together her magazines and her fake medicines, and thus ready to do harm, went about visiting her suffering neighbors. But she never suspected that she was not an angel of healing and the greatest comfort to her suffering neighbors.

The water treatment was new now, and Tom's low condition was a lucky chance for her. She had him out at daylight every morning, stood him up in the woodshed and soaked him with a flood of cold water; then she scrubbed him down with a towel roughly, and so woke him up; then she rolled him up in a wet sheet and put him away under blankets until he sweated out what she thought were the impurities "through his pores" -- as Tom described it.

Yet despite all this, the boy grew more and more sad and pale and low in spirits. She added hot baths, hip baths, shower baths, and cold plunges. The boy remained as gloomy as a hearse. She began to add to the water treatment a thin oatmeal diet and blister bandages. She measured his capacity as she would a jug's, and filled him up every day with fake universal cures.

Tom had become used to being treated this way by this time. This phase filled the old lady's heart with worry. This lack of response must be broken up at any cost. Now she heard of Pain-killer for the first time. She ordered a lot at once. She tasted it and was filled with thankfulness. It was simply fire in a bottle. She dropped the water treatment and everything else, and trusted entirely to Pain-killer. She gave Tom a teaspoonful and watched with the deepest anxiety for the result. Her worries were quickly calmed, her soul at peace again; for the "lack of response" was broken up. The boy could not have shown a wilder, more enthusiastic interest, if she had built a fire under him.

Tom felt that it was time to act; this sort of life might be exciting enough, in his troubled condition, but it was getting to have too little variety and too much confusing change about it. So he thought over various plans for relief, and finally thought of pretending to be fond of Pain-killer. He asked for it so often that he became a nuisance, and his aunt ended by telling him to help himself and stop bothering her. If it had been Sid, she would have had no doubts to spoil her delight; but since it was Tom, she watched the bottle in secret. She found that the medicine did really go down, but it did not occur to her that the boy was pouring it into a crack in the sitting room floor.

One day Tom was in the act of giving a dose to the crack when his aunt's yellow cat came along, purring, eyeing the teaspoon greedily, and begging for a taste. Tom said:

"Don't ask for it unless you want it, Peter."

But Peter showed that he did want it.

"You better make sure."

Peter was sure.

"Now you've asked for it, and I'll give it to you, because there isn't anything mean about me; but if you find you don't like it, you mustn't blame anybody but your own self."

Peter was happy with that. So Tom opened his mouth and poured down the Pain-killer. Peter sprang a couple of yards in the air, and then let out a loud yell and set off running around and around the room, banging against furniture, knocking over flower pots, and making general chaos. Next he rose on his hind feet and danced around, wildly excited, with his head over his shoulder and his voice expressing extreme feelings. Then he went running around the house again, spreading chaos and destruction in his path. Aunt Polly entered in time to see him throw a few somersaults, give a final mighty cry, and fly through the open window, carrying the rest of the flower pots with him. The old lady stood frozen with astonishment, peering over her glasses; Tom lay on the floor, dying with laughter.

"Tom, what on earth is wrong with that cat?"

"I don't know, aunt," gasped the boy.

"Why, I never see anything like it. What did make him act so?"

"I really don't know, Aunt Polly; cats always act so when they're having a good time."

"They do, do they?" There was something in the tone that made Tom nervous.

"Yes. That is, I believe they do."

"You DO?"

"Yes."

The old lady was bending down, Tom watching, with interest mixed with worry. Too late he realized her purpose. The handle of the telling teaspoon was visible under the edge of the bed covering. Aunt Polly took it, held it up. Tom winced, and dropped his eyes. Aunt Polly lifted him by the usual handle -- his ear -- and rapped his head soundly with her thimble.

"Now, sir, what did you want to treat that poor innocent animal so, for?"

"I did it out of pity for him -- because he hadn't any aunt."

"Hadn't any aunt! -- you fool. What has that got to do with it?"

"Lots. Because if he'd had one she'd have burned him out herself! She'd have cooked his insides without any more feeling than if he was a human!"

Aunt Polly felt a sudden sharp regret. This was putting the thing in a new light; what was cruelty to a cat MIGHT be cruelty to a boy, too. She began to feel less angry; she felt sorry. Her eyes watered a little, and she put her hand on Tom's head and said gently:

"I was meaning for the best, Tom. And, Tom, it DID do you good."

Tom looked up in her face with just a little twinkle showing through his serious expression.

"I know you were meaning for the best, aunty, and so was I with Peter. It did HIM good, too. I've never seen him get around so much since --"

"Oh, go along with you, Tom, before you annoy me again. And you try and see if you can't be a good boy, for once, and you needn't take any more medicine."

Tom reached school ahead of time. It was noticed that this strange thing had been happening every day lately. And now, as usual of late, he hung around the gate of the school yard instead of playing with his friends. He was sick, he said, and he looked it. He tried to appear to be looking everywhere but where he really was looking -- down the road. Soon Jeff Thatcher came into view, and Tom's face lit up; he looked for a moment, and then turned sorrowfully away. When Jeff arrived, Tom spoke to him; and carefully guided the conversation to the topic of Becky, but the carefree boy never seemed to notice the hint. Tom watched and waited, hoping whenever he saw a girl's dress appear in the distance, and hating the owner of it as soon as he saw she was not the right one. At last no more dresses appeared, and he dropped hopelessly into sadness; he entered the empty schoolhouse and sat down to suffer. Then one more dress passed in at the gate, and Tom's heart gave a great jump. The next instant he was out, and performing like a daredevil: yelling, laughing, chasing boys, jumping over the fence at the risk of life and limb, doing somersaults, standing on his head -- doing all the daring things he could think of, and keeping a secret eye out, all the while, to see if Becky Thatcher was watching. But she seemed to be unaware of it all; she never looked. Could it be possible that she did not know he was there? He brought his tricks to the area near her; came running and shouting around, grabbed a boy's cap, threw it to the roof of the schoolhouse, broke through a group of boys, sending them in every direction, and fell sprawling himself, almost knocking Becky down -- and she turned, with her nose in the air, and he heard her say: "Hmph! Some people think they're very clever -- always showing off!"

Tom's cheeks burned. He picked himself up and slipped away, defeated and sad.