THE reader may be sure that Tom's and Huck's unexpected money created a great stir in the poor little village of St. Petersburg. Such a large sum, all in real cash, seemed almost unbelievable. It was talked about, celebrated, and praised until the judgment of many of the townspeople was shaken under the weight of the unhealthy excitement. Every "ghost-filled" house in St. Petersburg and the nearby villages was taken apart, board by board, and its foundations dug up and searched thoroughly for hidden treasure -- and not by boys, but by men -- serious, sober men, too, some of them. Wherever Tom and Huck appeared they were admired, praised, and stared at. The boys were not able to remember that their words had ever mattered before; but now their remarks were saved and repeated; everything they did seemed somehow special; they had clearly lost the ability to do or say ordinary things; moreover, their past history was dug up and found to show clear signs of greatness. The village newspaper published life stories of the boys.

The Widow Douglas loaned Huck's money out at six per cent interest, and Judge Thatcher did the same with Tom's at Aunt Polly's request. Each boy now had an income that was simply huge -- a dollar for every weekday in the year and half of the Sundays. It was just what the minister earned -- no, it was what he was promised -- he usually could not collect it. A dollar and a quarter a week would pay for board, lodging, and schooling for a boy in those old simple days -- and clothing and washing too, for that matter.

Judge Thatcher had formed a high opinion of Tom. He said that no ordinary boy would ever have brought his daughter out of the cave. When Becky told her father, in strict secret, how Tom had taken her punishment at school, the Judge was clearly moved; and when she pleaded forgiveness for the great lie which Tom had told in order to shift that punishment from her shoulders to his own, the Judge said with great feeling that it was a noble, a generous, a great-hearted lie -- a lie that was worthy to hold up its head and march down through history side by side with George Washington's famous Truth about the hatchet! Becky thought her father had never looked so tall and so impressive as when he walked the floor and stamped his foot and said that. She went straight off and told Tom about it.

Judge Thatcher hoped to see Tom become a great lawyer or a great soldier someday. He said he meant to make sure that Tom should be admitted to the National Military Academy and then trained in the best law school in the country, in order that he might be ready for either career or both.

Huck Finn's wealth and the fact that he was now under the Widow Douglas' care brought him into society -- no, pulled him into it, threw him into it -- and his sufferings were almost more than he could bear. The widow's workers kept him clean and neat, combed and brushed, and they put him to bed every night in unfriendly sheets that had not one little spot or stain that he could press to his heart as a friend. He had to eat with a knife and fork; he had to use a napkin, cup, and plate; he had to learn his books, he had to go to church; he had to talk so properly that speech became tasteless in his mouth; wherever he turned, the rules and limits of civilization shut him in and held him completely.

He bravely bore his unhappiness for three weeks, and then one day disappeared. For forty-eight hours the widow looked for him everywhere in great distress. The people were deeply worried; they searched high and low, they dragged the river for his body. Early on the third morning Tom Sawyer wisely went searching among some old empty barrels down behind the abandoned slaughterhouse, and in one of them he found the runaway. Huck had slept there; he had just eaten some stolen scraps of food, and was now relaxing comfortably, with his pipe. He was untidy, with uncombed hair, and dressed in the same old worn-out rags that had made him interesting to see in the days when he was free and happy. Tom got him out, told him the trouble he had been causing, and urged him to go home. Huck's face lost its peaceful happiness, and took on a sad look. He said:

"Don't talk about it, Tom. I've tried it, and it doesn't work; it doesn't work, Tom. It isn't for me; I'm not used to it. The widow's good to me, and kind; but I can't stand those ways. She makes me get up at the same time every morning; she makes me wash, they comb me all to pieces; she won't let me sleep in the woodshed; I've got to wear those awful clothes that suffocate me, Tom; they don't let any air through somehow; and they're so terribly nice that I can't sit down, or lie down, or roll around anywhere; I haven't slid on a cellar door for -- well, it seems like years; I've got to go to church and sweat and sweat -- I hate those terrible sermons! I can't catch a fly in there, I can't chew tobacco. I have to wear shoes all Sunday. The widow eats by a bell; she goes to bed by a bell; she gets up by a bell -- everything's so awfully regular that a person can't stand it."

"Well, everybody does that way, Huck."

"Tom, it doesn't make any difference. I'm not everybody, and I can't STAND it. It's awful to be controlled so. And food comes too easily -- I don't enjoy food that way. I've got to ask to go fishing; I've got to ask to go swimming -- I have to ask to do everything. Well, I had to talk so nicely that it wasn't any pleasure -- I had to go up to the attic and swear for a while every day, just to get a bit of relief, or I would have gone crazy, Tom. The widow wouldn't let me smoke; she wouldn't let me shout, she wouldn't let me yawn, or stretch, or scratch, in front of people --" [Then with a particular feeling of irritation] -- "And she prayed all the time! I never saw such a woman! I HAD to leave, Tom -- I just had to. And besides, school's going to start, and I'd have had to go -- well, I wouldn't stand THAT, Tom. Look here, Tom, being rich isn't what it's said to be. It's just worry and worry, and work and work, and wishing you were dead all the time. Now these clothes suit me, and this barrel suits me, and I'm never going to give them up. Tom, I wouldn't have gotten into all this trouble if it hadn't been for that money; now you just take my share of it along with yours, and give me a little money sometimes -- not often, because I don't care about a thing unless it's somewhat hard to get -- and you go and ask the widow to forgive me."

"Oh, Huck, you know I can't do that. It isn't fair; and besides, if you'll try this thing just a while longer you'll come to like it."

"Like it! Yes -- the way I'd like a hot stove if I sat on it long enough. No, Tom, I won't be rich, and I won't live in those awful stuffy houses. I like the woods, and the river, and barrels, and I'll stick to them too. Darn it all! Just when we'd got guns, and a cave, and everything arranged for robbing, here this foolishness has got to come up and ruin it all!"

Tom saw his chance --

"Look here, Huck, being rich isn't going to stop me from turning robber."

"No! Oh, wow! Are you really serious, Tom?"

"Completely serious, just as I'm sitting here. But Huck, we can't let you into the gang if you aren't respectable, you know."

Huck's joy was stopped.

"Can't let me in, Tom? Didn't you let me be a pirate?"

"Yes, but that's different. A robber is more important than a pirate -- generally speaking. In most countries they're very high up in the nobility -- dukes and such."

"Now, Tom, haven't you always been friendly to me? You wouldn't shut me out, would you, Tom? You wouldn't do that, now, WOULD you, Tom?"

"Huck, I wouldn't want to, and I DON'T want to -- but what would people say? Why, they'd say, 'Hm! Tom Sawyer's Gang! Pretty low sorts in it!' They'd mean you, Huck. You wouldn't like that, and I wouldn't."

Huck was silent for some time, in a mental fight with himself. Finally he said:

"Well, I'll go back to the widow for a month and try it and see if I can stand it, if you'll let me belong to the gang, Tom."

"All right, Huck, it's a great idea! Come along, and I'll ask the widow to go a little easier on you, Huck."

"Will you, Tom -- now will you? That's great. If she'll ease up on some of the hardest things, I'll smoke in private and swear in private, and somehow get through or break. When are you going to start the gang and turn robbers?"

"Oh, right away. We'll get the boys together and have the joining ceremony tonight, maybe."

"Have the what?"

"Have the joining ceremony."

"What's that?"

"It's to swear to support each other, and never tell the gang's secrets, even if you're cut to pieces, and to deal with anybody and all his family that hurts one of the gang."

"That's exciting -- that's really exciting, Tom, I tell you."

"Well, I bet it is. And all that swearing's got to be done at midnight, in the loneliest, scariest place you can find -- a haunted house is the best, but they're all fallen apart now."

"Well, midnight's good anyway, Tom."

"Yes, so it is. And you've got to swear on a coffin, and sign it with blood."

"Now, that's something WONDERFUL! Why, it's a million times better than pirating. I'll stick to the widow until I die, Tom; and if I grow up to be a real great robber, and everybody talking about it, I think she'll be proud she took me in."

THE END This ends the story. Being strictly the history of a BOY, it must stop here; the story could not go much further without becoming the history of a MAN. When one writes a novel about grown people, one knows exactly where to stop -- that is, with a marriage; but when writing about young people, one must stop where it seems best. Most of the characters in this book still live, and are prosperous and happy. Someday it may seem worthwhile to pick up the story of the younger ones again and see what kind of men and women they turned out to be; therefore it will be wiser not to reveal any of that part of their lives at present.