TOM moved quickly this way and that through lanes until he was well out of the path of students returning home, and then fell into a gloomy, slow walk. He crossed a small stream two or three times, because of a common belief among young people that crossing water prevented anyone from following you. Half an hour later he was disappearing behind the Douglas mansion on the top of Cardiff Hill, and the school house was barely visible far away in the valley behind him. He entered a thick wood, found his way without a path to the center of it, and sat down on a mossy spot under a large spreading oak tree. There was not even a light breeze stirring; the dead midday heat had even silenced the songs of the birds; nature lay in a deep sleep that was broken by no sound but the occasional far-off knocking of a woodpecker, and this seemed to make the all-surrounding silence and sense of loneliness even more complete. The boy's soul was filled with sadness; his feelings matched his surroundings perfectly. He sat for a long time with his elbows on his knees and his chin in his hands, thinking deeply. It seemed to him that life was nothing but trouble, at best, and he more than half wished he was Jimmy Hodges, who had recently died; it must be very peaceful, he thought, to lie and sleep and dream forever and ever, with the wind whispering through the trees and gently touching the grass and the flowers over the grave, and nothing to bother and grieve about, ever any more. If he only had a clean Sunday school record he could be willing to go, and be done with it all. Now as to this girl. What had he done? Nothing. He had meant the best in the world, and had been treated like a dog -- like a very dog. She would be sorry someday -- maybe when it was too late. Ah, if he could only die FOR A LITTLE WHILE!

But the flexible heart of youth cannot be kept in one tight shape for long at a time. Tom soon began to drift slowly back into the concerns of this life again. What if he turned his back now, and disappeared mysteriously? What if he went away -- ever so far away, into unknown countries beyond the seas -- and never came back any more! How would she feel then! The idea of being a clown came back to him now, only to fill him with strong dislike. For silliness and jokes and spotted tights were an insult when they forced themselves upon a spirit that had risen into the grand and romantic. No, he would be a soldier, and return after long years, all damaged by war and famous. No -- better still, he would join the Native Americans, and hunt buffaloes and go on the warpath in the mountain ranges and the great plains of the Far West, and come back in the future as a great chief, covered with feathers, painted, and walk into Sunday school some quiet summer morning with a terrifying war cry, and dazzle all his friends with uncontrollable envy. But no, there was something more colorful even than this. He would be a pirate! That was it! NOW his future lay plain before him, and glowing with unimaginable magnificence. How his name would fill the world, and make people shudder! How gloriously he would go sailing the open seas, in his long, low, dark ship, the Spirit of the Storm, with his fearsome flag flying at the front! And at the height of his fame, how he would suddenly appear at the old village and walk proudly into church, tanned and weather-worn, in his black velvet jacket and shorts, his great tall boots, his crimson belt, his belt filled with large pistols, his sword at his side, his wide-brimmed hat with waving feathers, his skull and crossbones flag raised, and hear with swelling extreme joy the whisperings, "It's Tom Sawyer the Pirate! -- the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main!"

Yes, it was settled; his career was determined. He would run away from home and begin it. He would start the very next morning. Therefore he must now begin to get ready. He would gather his resources together. He went to a rotten log near at hand and began to dig under one end of it with his Barlow knife. He soon struck wood that sounded hollow. He put his hand there and said this magical chant impressively:

"What hasn't come here, come! What's here, stay here!"

Then he scraped away the dirt, and revealed a pine board. He took it up and showed a well-shaped little treasure hiding place whose bottom and sides were of boards. In it lay a marble. Tom's surprise was enormous! He scratched his head with a confused look, and said:

"Well, that beats anything!"

Then he threw the marble away irritably, and stood thinking deeply. The truth was, that a belief of his had failed here, which he and all his friends had always thought was always correct. If you buried a marble with certain necessary magical chants, and left it alone for two weeks, and then opened the place with the magical chant he had just used, you would find that all the marbles you had ever lost had gathered themselves together there, in the meantime, no matter how widely they had been scattered. But now, this thing had actually and clearly failed. Tom's whole system of beliefs was shaken to its core. He had many a time heard of this thing succeeding but never of its failing before. It did not occur to him that he had tried it several times before himself, but could never find the hiding places afterward. He thought about the matter for some time, and finally decided that some witch had interfered and broken the charm. He thought he would check on that point; so he searched around until he found a small sandy spot with a small funnel-shaped dip in it. He lay himself down and put his mouth close to this depression and called --

"Doodle-bug, doodle-bug, tell me what I want to know! Doodle-bug, doodle-bug, tell me what I want to know!"

The sand began to move, and soon a small black bug appeared for a second and then darted under again in fright.

"He doesn't dare tell! So it WAS a witch that done it. I just knew it."

He well knew the uselessness of trying to fight against witches, so he gave up, discouraged. But it occurred to him that he might as well have the marble he had just thrown away, and therefore he went and made a patient search for it. But he could not find it. Now he went back to his treasure hiding place and carefully placed himself just as he had been standing when he threw the marble away; then he took another marble from his pocket and threw it in the same way, saying:

"Brother, go find your brother!"

He watched where it stopped, and went there and looked. But it must have fallen short or gone too far; so he tried twice more. The last try was successful. The two marbles lay within a foot of each other.

Just then the sound of a toy tin trumpet came faintly down the green paths of the forest. Tom threw off his jacket and trousers, turned a suspender into a belt, cleared away some brush behind the rotten log, revealing a rough bow and arrow, a thin wooden sword and a tin trumpet, and in a moment had seized these things and jumped away, bare legged, with his shirt flapping. He soon stopped under a great elm tree, blew an answering blast, and then began to walk carefully and look cautiously out, this way and that. He said carefully -- to an imaginary group:

"Hold, my merry men! Keep hidden till I blow."

Now appeared Joe Harper, as lightly dressed and elaborately armed as Tom. Tom called:

"Hold! Who comes here into Sherwood Forest without my pass?"

"Guy of Guisborne wants no man's pass. Who are you that -- that --"

"Dares to hold such language," said Tom, giving him the line -- for they spoke from memory.

"Who are you that dares to hold such language?"

"I, indeed! I am Robin Hood, as your worthless body shall soon know."

"Then you are indeed that famous outlaw? Gladly will I fight you at the passes of the merry wood. Attack!"

They took their thin wooden swords, dropped their other equipment on the ground, got into a fighting position, foot to foot, and began a serious, careful fight, "two up and two down." Soon Tom said:

"Now, if you've got the rhythm, go at it with energy!"

So they "went at it with energy," panting and sweating with the effort. After a while Tom shouted:

"Fall! Fall! Why don't you fall?"

"I won't! Why don't you fall yourself? You're getting the worst of it."

"Well, that doesn't matter. I can't fall; that's not the way it is in the book. The book says, 'Then with one backhanded stroke he killed poor Guy of Guisborne.' You're supposed to turn around and let me hit you in the back."

There was no getting around the rules (the book), so Joe turned, received the hit and fell.

"Now," said Joe, getting up, "you've got to let me kill YOU. That's fair."

"Why, I can't do that, it isn't in the book."

"Well, it's very unfair -- that's all."

"Well, say, Joe, you can be Friar Tuck or Much the miller's son, and hit me with a staff; or I'll be the Sheriff of Nottingham and you be Robin Hood a little while and kill me."

This was acceptable, and so these adventures were carried out. Then Tom became Robin Hood again, and was allowed by the untrustworthy nun to drain his strength away through his unattended wound. And at last Joe, pretending to represent a whole group of weeping outlaws, dragged him sadly forth, placed his bow in his weak hands, and Tom said, "Where this arrow falls, there bury poor Robin Hood under the greenwood tree." Then he shot the arrow and fell back and would have died, but he landed on a nettle and sprang up too quickly for a corpse.

The boys dressed themselves, hid their equipment, and went off feeling sad that there were no outlaws any more, and wondering what modern society could claim to have done to make up for their loss. They said they would rather be outlaws for a year in Sherwood Forest than President of the United States forever.