NOW to go back to Tom and Becky's part in the picnic. They walked happily along the dim tunnels with the rest of the group, visiting the familiar wonders of the cave -- wonders given rather overblown names, such as "The Drawing Room," "The Cathedral," "Aladdin's Palace," and so on. Soon the hiding-and-seeking game began, and Tom and Becky joined in eagerly until the activity began to grow a little tiring; then they wandered down a winding path holding their candles high and reading the tangled web of names, dates, addresses, and messages with which the rock walls had been decorated in candle smoke. Still moving slowly along and talking, they hardly noticed that they were now in a part of the cave whose walls were not decorated. They wrote their own names in smoke under a hanging ledge and moved on. Then they came to a place where a little stream of water, dripping over a ledge and carrying a limestone sediment, had over many slow years formed a lacy and beautiful waterfall in shining permanent stone. Tom squeezed his small body behind it to light it up for Becky's enjoyment. He found that it hid a kind of steep natural stairway enclosed between narrow walls, and at once the desire to be an explorer seized him. Becky responded to his call, and they made a smoke mark for future guidance, and started on their exploration. They wound this way and that, deep into the hidden depths of the cave, made another mark, and turned off to look for new things to tell the others about. In one place they found a spacious cavern, from whose ceiling hung many shining rock formations the length and thickness of a man's leg; they walked all around it, amazed and admiring, and then left it by one of the many passages that opened into it. This soon brought them to a beautiful spring, whose basin was covered with a layer of glittering crystals; it was in the middle of a cavern whose walls were supported by many unusual columns formed by the joining of great stalactites and stalagmites together, the result of the endless water drip of centuries. Under the ceiling, huge bunches of bats had crowded together, thousands in a group; the lights disturbed the creatures and they came rushing down by hundreds, squeaking and darting furiously at the candles. Tom knew their habits and the danger of this. He grabbed Becky's hand and hurried her into the first corridor that offered; and not a moment too soon, for a bat knocked Becky's light out with its wing as she was going out of the cavern. The bats chased the children a good distance; but the fleeing children turned into every new passage that offered, and finally got rid of the dangerous creatures. Tom found an underground lake soon after, which stretched away until its shape was lost in the shadows. He wanted to explore its edges, but decided it would be best to sit down and rest first. Now, for the first time, the deep stillness of the place put a cold, unpleasant feeling over the children's spirits. Becky said:

"Why, I didn't notice, but it seems like a very long time since I heard any of the others."

"Come to think of it, Becky, we are far below them -- and I don't know how far north, or south, or east, or whichever direction. We couldn't hear them here."

Becky became worried.

"I wonder how long we've been down here, Tom? We better start back."

"Yes, I suppose we better. Perhaps we better."

"Can you find the way, Tom? It's all confused and crooked to me."

"I think I could find it -- but then the bats. If they put our candles out it will be a terrible situation. Let's try some other way, so we don't have to go through there."

"Well. But I hope we won't get lost. It would be so awful!" and the girl shuddered at the thought of the dreadful possibilities.

They started through a corridor, and walked through it in silence for a long time, looking at each new opening to see if there was anything familiar about it; but they were all strange. Every time Tom looked around, Becky would watch his face for an encouraging sign, and he would say cheerfully:

"Oh, it's all right. This isn't the one, but we'll come to it soon!"

But he felt less and less hopeful with each failure, and soon began to turn off into different paths at random, in desperate hope of finding the right one. He still said it was "all right," but there was such a heavy fear in his heart that the words had lost their meaning and sounded just as if he had said, "All is lost!" Becky clung to his side in an agony of fear, and tried hard to hold back the tears, but they came anyway. At last she said:

"Oh, Tom, never mind the bats, let's go back that way! We seem to be getting worse and worse off all the time."

"Listen!" said he.

Deep silence; silence so deep that even their breathing was noticeable in the quiet. Tom shouted. The call went echoing down the empty tunnels and died out in the distance in a faint sound that seemed like mocking laughter.

"Oh, don't do it again, Tom, it's too horrible," said Becky.

"It is horrible, but I better do it, Becky; they might hear us, you know," and he shouted again.

The "might" was even more chilling than the echoing laughter, it showed such a faint hope. The children stood still and listened; but there was no response. Tom turned back along the route they had come from right away, and walked faster. It was only a little while before a certain uncertainty in his manner revealed another frightening fact to Becky -- he could not find his way back!

"Oh, Tom, you didn't make any marks!"

"Becky, I was such a fool! Such a fool! I never thought we might want to come back! No -- I can't find the way. It's all mixed up."

"Tom, Tom, we're lost! we're lost! We can never get out of this awful place! Oh, why DID we ever leave the others!"

She sank to the ground and burst into such a wild fit of crying that Tom was shocked, afraid that she might die, or lose her mind. He sat down by her and put his arms around her; she buried her face against him, she held on to him, she poured out her fears, her useless regrets, and the far echoes turned them all into mocking laughter. Tom begged her to find hope again, and she said she could not. He fell to blaming himself for getting her into this terrible situation; this had a better effect. She said she would try to hope again, she would get up and follow wherever he might lead if only he would not talk like that anymore. For he was no more to blame than she was, she said.

So they moved on again -- without direction -- simply by chance -- moving was all they could do. For a little while, hope seemed to return -- not for any reason, but only because that is its nature, to come back when the spirit has not been completely worn down by age and too many failures.

After a while, Tom told Becky to blow out her candle. This saving said everything without words. Becky understood, and her hope died again. She knew that Tom had a whole candle and three or four pieces in his pockets -- yet he had to be careful.

After a while, tiredness began to demand attention; the children tried to ignore it, for it was terrible to think of sitting down when time was so precious -- moving, in some direction, in any direction, was at least progress and might succeed; but to sit down was to invite death. At last Becky's weak legs refused to carry her further. She sat down. Tom rested with her, and they talked of home, and the friends there, and the comfortable beds and, above all, the light! Becky cried, and Tom tried to think of something to comfort her, but all his words of encouragement had been used up, and sounded hollow. Tiredness weighed so heavily on Becky that she drifted off to sleep. Tom was grateful. He sat looking into her strained face and watched it grow smooth and natural under the influence of pleasant dreams; and after a while a smile appeared and stayed there. The peaceful face brought some peace and healing to his own spirit, and his thoughts wandered to past times and happy memories. While he was deep in thought, Becky woke up with a quick little laugh -- but it was stopped immediately on her lips, and a groan followed it.

"Oh, how COULD I sleep! I wish I never, never had woken! No! No, I don't, Tom! Don't look so! I won't say that again."

"I'm glad you slept, Becky; you'll feel rested now, and we'll find the way out."

"We can try, Tom; but I saw such a beautiful place in my dream. I think we are going there."

"Maybe not, maybe not. Cheer up, Becky, and let's go on trying."

They rose up and wandered along, hand in hand and without hope. They tried to guess how long they had been in the cave, but all they knew was that it seemed like days and weeks, and yet it was clear that this could not be so, for their candles were not finished yet. A long time after this -- they could not tell how long -- Tom said they must go softly and listen for dripping water -- they must find a spring. They found one soon, and Tom said it was time to rest again. Both were terribly tired, but Becky said she thought she could go a little further. She was surprised to hear Tom disagree. She could not understand it. They sat down, and Tom fixed his candle to the wall in front of them with some clay. Thinking filled their minds; nothing was said for some time. Then Becky broke the silence:

"Tom, I am so hungry!"

Tom took something out of his pocket.

"Do you remember this?" said he.

Becky almost smiled.

"It's our wedding cake, Tom."

"Yes -- I wish it was as big as a barrel, for it's all we have."

"I saved it from the picnic for us to dream on, Tom, the way grown-up people do with wedding cake -- but it'll be our --"

She did not finish the sentence. Tom divided the cake and Becky ate her share with good appetite, while Tom ate his slowly. There was plenty of cold water to finish the small meal with. After a while Becky suggested that they move on again. Tom was silent for a moment. Then he said:

"Becky, can you handle it if I tell you something?"

Becky's face went pale, but she said she thought she could.

"Well then, Becky, we must stay here, where there's water to drink. That little piece is our last candle!"

Becky gave way to tears and great sadness. Tom did what he could to comfort her, but with little success. At length Becky said:

"Tom!"

"Well, Becky?"

"They'll miss us and look for us!"

"Yes, they will! They certainly will!"

"Maybe they're looking for us now, Tom."

"Why, I think maybe they are. I hope they are."

"When would they miss us, Tom?"

"When they get back to the boat, I think."

"Tom, it might be dark then -- would they notice we hadn't come?"

"I don't know. But anyway, your mother would miss you as soon as they got home."

A frightened look in Becky's face made Tom realize he had made a mistake. Becky was not supposed to go home that night! The children fell silent and thoughtful. In a moment a new burst of sadness from Becky showed Tom that what was in his mind had struck hers too -- that Sunday morning might be half over before Mrs. Thatcher discovered that Becky was not at Mrs. Harper's.

The children kept their eyes upon their piece of candle and watched it melt slowly away; saw the small stub of wick stand alone at last; saw the weak flame rise and fall, climb the thin column of smoke, pause at its top for a moment, and then -- the horror of complete darkness filled the world!

How long afterward it was that Becky came slowly to realize that she was crying in Tom's arms, neither could tell. All they knew was that after what seemed a very long stretch of time, both woke out of a deep sleep and faced their miseries once more. Tom said it might be Sunday now -- maybe Monday. He tried to get Becky to talk, but her sadness was too heavy, all her hopes were gone. Tom said that they must have been missed a long time ago, and no doubt the search was happening right now. He would shout and maybe someone would come. He tried it; but in the darkness the distant echoes sounded so horrible that he stopped.

The hours passed, and hunger came back to torment them. A portion of Tom's half of the cake was left; they divided and ate it. But they seemed hungrier than before. The tiny amount of food only increased the desire.

After a while Tom said:

"Quiet! Did you hear that?"

Both held their breath and listened. There was a sound like the faintest, far-off shout. Immediately Tom answered it, and taking Becky by the hand, started feeling his way down the corridor in that direction. Soon he listened again; the sound came again, and seemed a little closer.

"It's them!" said Tom; "they're coming! Come along, Becky -- we're all right now!"

The joy of the prisoners was almost too great. Their progress was slow, however, because deep holes were common, and had to be watched for. They soon came to one and had to stop. It might be three feet deep, it might be a hundred -- there was no way past it in any case. Tom got down on his stomach and reached as far down as he could. No bottom. They had to stay there and wait until the searchers came. They listened; clearly the distant shouting was getting further away! A moment or two more and it was gone completely. The heartbreaking misery of it! Tom shouted until he was exhausted, but it was no use. He tried to keep Becky's spirits up; but a long age of anxious waiting passed and no sounds came again.

The children felt their way back to the spring. The weary time dragged on; they slept again, and awoke starving and full of sadness. Tom believed it must be Tuesday by now.

Then an idea struck him. There were some side passages nearby. It would be better to explore some of these than just sit waiting with nothing to do. He took a kite string from his pocket, tied it to a rock that stuck out, and he and Becky started, Tom in the lead, unwinding the string as he went. At the end of twenty steps the corridor ended in a "drop-off." Tom got down on his knees and felt below, and then reached as far around the corner as he could with his hands; he tried to stretch just a little farther to the right, and at that moment, not twenty yards away, a human hand holding a candle appeared from behind a rock! Tom let out a great shout, and instantly that hand was followed by the body it belonged to -- Injun Joe's! Tom was frozen; he could not move. He was very glad the next moment to see the "Spaniard" take to his heels and disappear. Tom thought that Joe had not recognized his voice because of the echoes. Without doubt, that was it, he told himself. Tom's fright took all the strength from his body. He said to himself that if he had strength enough to get back to the spring he would stay there, and nothing would make him risk meeting Injun Joe again. He was careful not to let Becky know what he had seen. He told her he had only shouted "for luck."

But hunger and misery become stronger than fear over time. Another long wait at the spring and another long sleep brought changes. The children awoke tortured by terrible hunger. Tom believed it must be Wednesday or Thursday or even Friday or Saturday now, and that the search had been given up. He suggested exploring another passage. He felt willing to risk Injun Joe and all other dangers. But Becky was very weak. She had sunk into a state of dull hopelessness and could not be roused. She said she would wait where she was, and die -- it would not be long. She told Tom to go with the kite string and explore if he wished; but she asked him to come back every little while and speak to her; and she made him promise that when the terrible end came, he would stay by her and hold her hand until all was over.

Tom kissed her, with a tightness in his throat, and pretended to be confident of finding the searchers or an escape from the cave; then he took the kite string in his hand and went feeling along one of the passages on his hands and knees, suffering from hunger and sick with fear of what was to come.