SATURDAY morning had come, and all the summer world was bright and fresh, and full of life. There was a happy feeling in every heart; and if the heart was young the music came out at the lips. There was cheer in every face and a spring in every step. The locust trees were in bloom and the sweet smell of the blossoms filled the air. Cardiff Hill, beyond the village and above it, was green with plants and it lay just far enough away to seem a lovely place, dreamy, peaceful, and beautiful.

Tom appeared on the sidewalk with a bucket of whitewash and a long-handled brush. He looked carefully at the fence, and all happiness left him and a deep sadness settled down upon his spirit. Thirty yards of wooden fence nine feet high. Life seemed empty to him, and living was a burden. Sighing, he dipped his brush and passed it along the topmost plank; repeated the action; did it again; compared the tiny whitewashed streak with the far-reaching huge area of fence still to be done, and sat down on a tree-box, discouraged. Jim came skipping out at the gate with a tin pail, and singing a song. Bringing water from the town pump had always been work Tom hated, before, but now it did not seem so bad. He remembered that there was company at the pump. White and black boys and girls were always there waiting their turns, resting, trading toys, arguing, fighting, playing around. And he remembered that although the pump was only a hundred and fifty yards away, Jim never got back with a bucket of water in under an hour -- and even then somebody usually had to go after him. Tom said:

"Say, Jim, I'll fetch the water if you'll whitewash some."

Jim shook his head and said:

"Can't, Master Tom. Old missus, she told me I got to go and get this water and not stop fooling around with anybody. She say she expects Master Tom is going to ask me to whitewash, and so she told me to go along and mind my own business -- she said SHE'D take care of the whitewashing."

"Oh, never mind what she said, Jim. That's the way she always talks. Give me the bucket -- I won't be gone but a minute. SHE'll never know."

"Oh, I don't dare, Master Tom. Old missus she'd give me a beating. She really would."

"SHE never hits anybody hard -- taps them over the head with her thimble -- and who cares for that, I'd like to know. She talks terribly, but talking doesn't hurt -- anyway it doesn't if she doesn't cry. Jim, I'll give you a marble. I'll give you a white alley!"

Jim began to hesitate.

"White alley, Jim! And it's a great shooter."

"My! That's a mighty nice marble, I tell you! But Master Tom, I'm very afraid old missus --"

"And besides, if you will, I'll show you my sore toe."

Jim was only human -- this temptation was too much for him. He put down his pail, took the white alley, and bent over the toe with complete attention while the bandage was being removed. In another moment he was running down the street with his pail and a stinging bottom, Tom was whitewashing with energy, and Aunt Polly was walking away with a slipper in her hand and victory in her eye.

But Tom's hard work did not last. He began to think of the fun he had planned for this day, and his sadness grew. Soon the free boys would come along on all sorts of wonderful adventures, and they would make fun of him for having to work -- the very thought of it burned him like fire. He took out his small savings and examined them -- bits of toys, marbles, and worthless things; enough to buy an exchange of WORK, maybe, but not nearly enough to buy even half an hour of pure freedom. So he returned his small amount of money to his pocket, and gave up the idea of trying to buy the boys. At this dark and hopeless moment a sudden great idea burst upon him! Nothing less than a wonderful inspiration.

He took up his brush and went calmly to work. Ben Rogers came in sight soon -- the very boy, of all boys, whose teasing he had been dreading most. Ben's walk was the hop-skip-and-jump -- clear proof that his heart was light and his expectations high. He was eating an apple, and giving a long, musical sound, at intervals, followed by a deep-toned ding-dong-dong, ding-dong-dong, for he was pretending to be a steamboat. As he drew near, he slowed down, took the middle of the street, leaned far over to the right side and turned heavily and with great effort and show -- for he was acting as the Big Missouri, and imagined himself to need nine feet of water. He was boat and captain and engine-bells all at once, so he had to imagine himself standing on his own upper deck giving the orders and carrying them out:

"Stop her, sir! Ting-a-ling-ling!" The forward movement slowed almost to a stop, and he moved slowly toward the sidewalk.

"Prepare to go back! Ting-a-ling-ling!" His arms straightened and stiffened down his sides.

"Set her back on the right side! Ting-a-ling-ling! Chow! ch-chow-wow! Chow!" His right hand, meanwhile, moving in large circles -- for it was representing a forty-foot wheel.

"Let her go back on the left side! Ting-a-ling-ling! Chow-ch-chow-chow!" The left hand began to move in circles.

"Stop the right side! Ting-a-ling-ling! Stop the left side! Come ahead on the right side! Stop her! Let your outside turn over slowly! Ting-a-ling-ling! Chow-ow-ow! Get out that front rope! QUICKLY now! Come -- out with your side rope -- what are you doing there! Take a turn around that stump with the curved part of it! Stand by that platform, now -- let her go! Done with the engines, sir! Ting-a-ling-ling! SH'T! S'H'T! SH'T!" (testing the water-level indicators).

Tom went on whitewashing -- paid no attention to the steamboat. Ben stared a moment and then said: "Hi-YI! YOU'RE stuck, aren't you!"

No answer. Tom inspected his last brush stroke with the eye of an artist, then he gave his brush another gentle sweep and inspected the result, as before. Ben came up alongside of him. Tom's mouth watered for the apple, but he kept working. Ben said:

"Hello, old friend, you've got to work, hey?"

Tom turned suddenly and said:

"Why, it's you, Ben! I wasn't noticing."

"Say -- I'm going swimming, I am. Don't you wish you could? But of course you'd rather WORK -- wouldn't you? Of course you would!"

Tom looked at the boy a bit, and said:

"What do you call work?"

"Why, isn't THAT work?"

Tom returned to his whitewashing, and answered in a relaxed way:

"Well, maybe it is, and maybe it isn't. All I know is, it suits Tom Sawyer."

"Oh come, now, you don't mean to pretend that you LIKE it?"

The brush continued to move.

"Like it? Well, I don't see why I shouldn't like it. Does a boy get a chance to whitewash a fence every day?"

That put the thing in a new light. Ben stopped eating his apple. Tom swept his brush gently back and forth -- stepped back to see the effect -- added a touch here and there -- studied the effect again -- Ben watching every move and getting more and more interested, more and more focused. Soon he said:

"Say, Tom, let ME whitewash a little."

Tom thought about it, was about to agree; but he changed his mind:

"No -- no -- I don't think that would do, Ben. You see, Aunt Polly's very particular about this fence -- right here on the street, you know -- but if it was the back fence I wouldn't mind and SHE wouldn't. Yes, she's very particular about this fence; it's got to be done very carefully; I don't think there's one boy in a thousand, maybe two thousand, that can do it the way it needs to be done."

"No -- is that so? Oh come, now -- let me just try. Only just a little -- I'd let YOU, if you were me, Tom."

"Ben, I'd like to, honestly; but Aunt Polly -- well, Jim wanted to do it, but she wouldn't let him; Sid wanted to do it, and she wouldn't let Sid. Now don't you see how I'm in a difficult position? If you were to start on this fence and anything happened to it --"

"Oh, come on, I'll be just as careful. Now let me try. Say -- I'll give you the core of my apple."

"Well, here -- No, Ben, now don't. I'm afraid --"

"I'll give you ALL of it!"

Tom gave up the brush with unwillingness on his face, but eagerness in his heart. And while the late steamboat Big Missouri worked and sweated in the sun, the resting artist sat on a barrel in the shade close by, dangled his legs, ate his apple, and planned the tricking of more innocent people. There was no lack of people to trick; boys came along every little while; they came to make fun, but stayed to whitewash. By the time Ben was tired out, Tom had traded the next chance to Billy Fisher for a kite, in good condition; and when he got tired, Johnny Miller bought in for a dead rat and a string to swing it with -- and so on, and so on, hour after hour. And when the middle of the afternoon came, from being a poor boy in the morning, Tom was covered in riches. He had, besides the things already mentioned, twelve marbles, part of a jaw harp, a piece of blue bottle-glass to look through, a small toy cannon, a key that wouldn't unlock anything, a piece of chalk, a glass stopper from a fancy bottle, a tin soldier, a couple of tadpoles, six firecrackers, a one-eyed kitten, a brass doorknob, a dog collar -- but no dog -- the handle of a knife, four pieces of orange peel, and a broken old window frame.

He had had a nice, good, relaxed time all the while -- plenty of company -- and the fence had three coats of whitewash on it! If he hadn't run out of whitewash he would have taken all the money from every boy in the village.

Tom said to himself that it was not such a worthless world, after all. He had discovered a great law of human behavior, without knowing it -- namely, that in order to make a man or a boy want a thing, it is only necessary to make the thing difficult to get. If he had been a great and wise thinker, like the writer of this book, he would now have understood that Work consists of whatever a person is FORCED to do, and that Play consists of whatever a person is not forced to do. And this would help him to understand why making artificial flowers or working on a machine is work, while bowling or climbing Mont Blanc is only amusement. There are wealthy gentlemen in England who drive four-horse coaches twenty or thirty miles on a daily route, in the summer, because the right costs them a great deal of money; but if they were offered wages for the service, that would turn it into work and then they would quit.

The boy thought for a while about the great change which had taken place in his situation, and then walked toward home to report.