
"TOM!" No answer. "TOM!" No answer. "Where has that boy gone, I wonder? You TOM!" No answer. The old lady pulled her glasses down and looked over them around the room; then she pushed them up and looked out from under them. She almost never looked through them for something as small as a boy; they were her best pair, the pride of her heart, and were made for "show," not for use -- she could have seen just as well through a pair of metal lids. She looked confused for a moment, and then said, not angrily, but still loud enough for the furniture to hear: "Well, I promise if I get hold of you I'll --" She did not finish, because by that time she was bending down and poking under the bed with the broom, and so she needed her breath to add force to the pushes. She brought out nothing but the cat. "I have never seen anything like that boy!" She went to the open door and stood in it and looked out among the tomato plants and weeds that made up the garden. No Tom. So she lifted her voice in a direction aimed for distance and shouted: "Y-o-u-u TOM!" There was a small noise behind her and she turned just in time to grab a small boy by the loose part of his short coat and stop him from running away. "There! I should have thought of that closet. What have you been doing in there?" "Nothing." "Nothing! Look at your hands. And look at your mouth. What is that stuff?" "I don't know, aunt." "Well, I know. It's jam -- that's what it is. Forty times I've said if you didn't leave that jam alone I'd punish you. Hand me that switch." The switch rose in the air -- the danger was great -- "My! Look behind you, aunt!" The old lady spun around, and pulled her skirts out of danger. The boy ran away at once, climbed up the high wooden fence, and disappeared over it. His Aunt Polly stood shocked for a moment, and then broke into a gentle laugh. "Goodness, the boy, can I never learn anything? Hasn't he played tricks on me enough for me to be watching for him by now? But old fools are the biggest fools there are. You can't teach an old dog new tricks, as the saying goes. But my goodness, he never plays them the same way twice, and how is a person to know what's coming? He seems to know just how long he can bother me before I get angry, and he knows if he can manage to distract me for a minute or make me laugh, everything is calm again and I can't hit him. I'm not doing my duty by that boy, and that's the truth, goodness knows. Spare the rod and ruin the child, as the Good Book says. I'm making trouble and suffering for us both, I know. He's full of mischief, but goodness! he's my own dead sister's boy, poor thing, and I can't find it in my heart to whip him, somehow. Every time I let him off, my inner sense of right and wrong hurts me so, and every time I hit him my old heart almost breaks. Well, a man who is born of woman has few days and much trouble, as the Bible says, and I suppose it's true. He'll skip school this afternoon, and I'll just be forced to make him work tomorrow, to punish him. It's very hard to make him work on Saturdays, when all the boys are having a holiday, but he hates work more than he hates anything else, and I've GOT to do some of my duty by him, or I'll be the ruin of the child."

Tom did skip school, and he had a very good time. He got back home just in time to help Jim, the small boy, saw the next day's wood and split the kindling before supper -- at least he was there in time to tell his adventures to Jim while Jim did three-quarters of the work. Tom's younger brother (or rather half-brother) Sid was already done with his part of the work (picking up chips), for he was a quiet boy, and had no exciting or troublesome ways. While Tom was eating his supper, and secretly taking sugar whenever he had the chance, Aunt Polly asked him questions that were full of tricks, and very clever -- for she wanted to get him to confess to things by accident. Like many other simple-hearted people, it was her favorite pride to believe she had a talent for dark and mysterious clever planning, and she loved to see her most obvious tricks as great works of cleverness. She said: "Tom, it was a bit warm in school, wasn't it?" "Yes'm." "Very warm, wasn't it?" "Yes'm." "Didn't you want to go swimming, Tom?" A little scare shot through Tom -- a touch of uncomfortable doubt. He studied Aunt Polly's face, but it told him nothing. So he said: "No'm -- well, not very much." The old lady reached out her hand and felt Tom's shirt, and said: "But you aren't too warm now, though." And it pleased her to think that she had discovered that the shirt was dry without anyone knowing what she had in her mind. But in spite of her, Tom knew where the danger was now. So he acted before she could make her next move: "Some of us pumped water on our heads -- mine's still damp. See?" Aunt Polly was annoyed to think she had missed that small piece of evidence, and had lost a point. Then she had a new idea: "Tom, you didn't have to undo your shirt collar where I sewed it, to pump water on your head, did you? Unbutton your jacket!" The worry disappeared from Tom's face. He opened his jacket. His shirt collar was firmly sewed. "Bother! Well, go along with you. I was sure you'd skipped school and gone swimming. But I forgive you, Tom. I guess you're better than you look, as the saying goes. THIS time." She was a little sorry her cleverness had failed, and a little glad that Tom had happened to be obedient for once. But Sidney said: "Well, now, if I didn't think you sewed his collar with white thread, but it's black." "Why, I did sew it with white! Tom!" But Tom did not wait for the rest. As he went out the door he said: "Sid, I'll get you for that." In a safe place Tom looked closely at two large needles which were stuck into the front of his jacket, and had thread wound around them -- one needle carried white thread and the other black. He said: "She'd never have noticed if it hadn't been for Sid. Darn it! sometimes she sews it with white, and sometimes she sews it with black. I wish she'd stick to one or the other -- I can't keep track of them. But I'll get Sid for that. I'll teach him!" He was not the Perfect Boy of the village. He knew the model boy very well though -- and hated him. Within two minutes, or even less, he had forgotten all his troubles. Not because his troubles were any less heavy and bitter to him than a man's are to a man, but because a new and powerful interest pushed them down and drove them out of his mind for the time -- just as men's misfortunes are forgotten in the excitement of new things to do. This new interest was a wonderful new way of whistling, which he had just learned from a boy, and he was eager to practice it undisturbed. It involved a peculiar bird-like turn, a kind of liquid warble, made by touching the tongue to the roof of the mouth at short intervals in the middle of the music -- the reader probably remembers how to do it, if they have ever been a boy. Hard work and attention soon gave him the skill, and he walked down the street with his mouth full of music and his heart full of happiness. He felt much like an astronomer who has discovered a new planet -- without any doubt, as far as strong, deep, pure pleasure is concerned, the advantage was with the boy, not the astronomer. The summer evenings were long. It was not dark yet. Suddenly Tom stopped whistling. A stranger was in front of him -- a boy a little larger than himself. A newcomer of any age or either gender was an interesting event in the poor little run-down village of St. Petersburg. This boy was well dressed, too -- well dressed on a weekday. This was simply amazing. His cap was a pretty thing, his tightly-buttoned blue cloth short coat was new and neat, and so were his trousers. He had shoes on -- and it was only Friday. He even wore a necktie, a bright piece of ribbon. He had a city-like air about him that bothered Tom's feelings. The more Tom stared at the wonderful sight, the higher he turned up his nose at the fancy clothes and the shabbier and shabbier his own clothes seemed to him to grow. Neither boy spoke. If one moved, the other moved -- but only sideways, in a circle; they kept face to face and eye to eye all the time. Finally Tom said: "I can beat you!" "I'd like to see you try." "Well, I can do it." "No you can't." "Yes I can." "No you can't." "I can." "You can't." "Can!" "Can't!" An uncomfortable pause. Then Tom said: "What's your name?" "That's none of your business, maybe." "Well, I guess I'll MAKE it my business." "Well, why don't you?" "If you say much more, I will." "Much -- much -- MUCH. There now." "Oh, you think you're very smart, DON'T you? I could beat you with one hand tied behind me, if I wanted to." "Well, why don't you DO it? You SAY you can do it." "Well I WILL, if you bother me." "Oh yes -- I've seen whole families in the same situation." "Smarty! You think you're special, now, DON'T you? Oh, what a hat!" "You can dislike that hat if you want. I dare you to knock it off -- and anyone who takes a dare is a coward." "You're a liar!" "You're another." "You're a lying coward and don't dare face it." "Go away!" "Say -- if you give me much more of your rudeness I'll throw a rock at your head." "Oh, of COURSE you will." "Well I WILL." "Well, why don't you DO it then? What do you keep SAYING you will for? Why don't you DO it? It's because you're afraid." "I AIN'T afraid." "You are." "I ain't." "You are." Another pause, and more staring and moving around each other. Soon they were shoulder to shoulder. Tom said: "Get away from here!" "Go away yourself!" "I won't." "I won't either." So they stood, each with a foot placed at an angle, and both pushing with all their strength, and glaring at each other with hate. But neither could get an advantage. After struggling until both were hot and red, each slowly backed off, and Tom said: "You're a coward. I'll tell my big brother on you, and he can beat you with his little finger, and I'll make him do it, too." "What do I care for your big brother? I've got a brother that's bigger than he is -- and he can throw him over that fence, too." [Both brothers were made up.] "That's a lie." "Saying so doesn't make it so." Tom drew a line in the dirt with his big toe, and said: "I dare you to step over that, and I'll beat you until you can't stand up. Anyone who takes a dare is a thief." The new boy stepped over right away, and said: "Now you said you'd do it, let's see you do it." "Don't push me now; you better watch out." "Well, you SAID you'd do it -- why don't you do it?" "I will, I promise!" The new boy took two large coins out of his pocket and held them out with mockery. Tom knocked them to the ground. In an instant both boys were rolling and tumbling in the dirt, holding onto each other; and for about a minute they pulled and tore at each other's hair and clothes, punched and scratched each other's noses, and covered themselves with dust and glory. Soon the fighting settled down, and through the confusion Tom appeared, sitting on top of the new boy, and hitting him with his fists. "Say you give up!" he said. The boy only struggled to get free. He was crying -- mostly from anger. "Say you give up!" -- and the hitting went on. At last the stranger got out a muffled "I give up!" and Tom let him up and said: "Now that'll teach you. Better watch out who you're picking a fight with next time." The new boy went off brushing the dust from his clothes, sobbing, sniffling, and occasionally looking back and shaking his head and threatening what he would do to Tom "next time he caught him out." To which Tom responded with teasing, and walked off in high spirits, and as soon as his back was turned the new boy picked up a stone, threw it and hit him between the shoulders and then ran away as fast as he could. Tom chased the disloyal boy all the way home, and in this way found out where he lived. He then stood at the gate for some time, daring the enemy to come outside, but the enemy only made faces at him through the window and refused. At last the enemy's mother appeared, and called Tom a bad, violent, rude child, and ordered him away. So he went away; but he said he would "wait" for that boy. He got home quite late that night, and when he crept in through the window, he found a trap waiting for him, in the person of his aunt; and when she saw the state his clothes were in, her firm decision to turn his Saturday holiday into forced hard work became completely unbreakable.
  