THERE was something about Aunt Polly's way of acting, when she kissed Tom, that lifted his low spirits and made him happy again. He started off to school and had the good luck of coming upon Becky Thatcher at the top of Meadow Lane. His mood always decided his behavior. Without a moment's hesitation he ran to her and said:

"I acted very badly today, Becky, and I'm so sorry. I'll never, ever do that way again, as long as I live -- please make up, won't you?"

The girl stopped and looked at him with disgust:

"I'll thank you to keep yourself AWAY from me, Mr. Thomas Sawyer. I'll never speak to you again."

She tossed her head and walked past him. Tom was so surprised that he had not even the presence of mind to say "Who cares, Miss Smarty?" until the right moment had passed. So he said nothing. But he was very angry, nevertheless. He walked sadly into the schoolyard wishing she were a boy, and imagining how he would deal with her if she were. He soon passed her and said something sharp. She threw one back at him, and the angry break was complete. It seemed to Becky, in her hot anger, that she could hardly wait for school to "begin," she was so eager to see Tom punished for the damaged spelling book. If she had had any remaining plan to expose Alfred Temple, Tom's insulting remark had driven it completely away.

Poor girl, she did not know how quickly she was getting close to trouble herself. The teacher, Mr. Dobbins, had reached middle age with an unfulfilled wish. The dream of his life was to be a doctor, but poverty had forced him to be nothing higher than a village schoolteacher. Every day he took a mysterious book out of his desk and studied it at times when no classes were giving their lessons. He kept that book under lock and key. There was not a boy in school who did not want a glimpse of it, but the chance never came. Every boy and girl had a guess about what kind of book it was; but no two guesses were the same, and there was no way of finding out the truth. Now, as Becky was passing by the desk, which stood near the door, she noticed that the key was in the lock! It was a valuable moment. She looked around; found herself alone, and the next instant she had the book in her hands. The title page -- Professor Somebody's STUDY OF THE HUMAN BODY -- meant nothing to her; so she began to turn the pages. She came at once upon a handsomely drawn and colored picture at the front -- a human figure, completely undressed. At that moment a shadow fell on the page and Tom Sawyer stepped in at the door and caught a glimpse of the picture. Becky grabbed at the book to close it, and unfortunately tore the pictured page half down the middle. She pushed the book into the desk, turned the key, and burst out crying with shame and anger.

"Tom Sawyer, you are just as mean as you can be, to sneak up on a person and look at what they're looking at."

"How could I know you were looking at anything?"

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Tom Sawyer; you know you're going to tell on me, and oh, what shall I do, what shall I do! I'll be punished, and I've never been punished in school."

Then she stamped her little foot and said:

"Be mean if you want to! I know something that's going to happen. You just wait and you'll see! Hateful, hateful, hateful!" -- and she ran out of the room with a new burst of crying.

Tom stood still, rather confused by this attack. Presently he said to himself:

"What a strange kind of fool a girl is! Never been hit at school! Come on! What's a little punishment! That's just like a girl -- they're so sensitive and cowardly. Well, of course I'm not going to tell on this little fool, because there are other ways of getting even with her that aren't so mean; but what of it? Old Dobbins will ask who tore his book. Nobody will answer. Then he'll do just what he always does -- ask first one and then another, and when he gets to the right girl he'll know it, without anyone telling. Girls' faces always give them away. They aren't good at hiding things. She'll get punished. Well, it's a tough situation for Becky Thatcher, because there isn't any way out of it." Tom thought about the thing a moment longer, and then added: "All right though; she'd like to see me in just such a fix -- let her deal with it!"

Tom joined the group of students playing outside. In a few moments the teacher arrived and school "began." Tom did not feel much interest in his studies. Every time he glanced at the girls' side of the room Becky's face troubled him. All things considered, he did not want to feel sorry for her, and yet it was all he could do to stop himself. He could find no joy that meant anything. Soon the spelling book discovery was made, and Tom's mind was completely filled with his own problems for a while after that. Becky woke up from her sad tiredness and showed real interest in what was happening. She did not expect that Tom could escape punishment by saying that he had spilled the ink on the book himself; and she was right. His denial only seemed to make things worse for Tom. Becky thought she would be glad of that, and she tried to believe she was glad, but she was not sure. When the worst came, she had an urge to stand up and tell on Alfred Temple, but she made herself stay quiet -- because, she told herself, "he'll tell about me tearing the picture for sure. I wouldn't say a word, not to save his life!"

Tom took his punishment and went back to his seat without much sadness, for he thought it was possible that he had unknowingly upset the ink on the spelling book himself, in some careless play -- he had denied it for the expected reason and because it was the usual thing to do, and had stuck to the denial out of habit.

A whole hour passed slowly, the teacher sat falling asleep in his chair, the air was quiet with the low hum of studying. After a while, Mr. Dobbins sat up straight, yawned, then unlocked his desk, and reached for his book, but seemed uncertain whether to take it out or leave it. Most of the students glanced up slowly, but there were two among them that watched his movements with focused attention. Mr. Dobbins touched his book without deciding for a while, then took it out and settled himself in his chair to read! Tom looked at Becky. He had seen a hunted and helpless rabbit look the way she did, with a gun pointed at it. Right away he forgot his anger with her. Quick -- something had to be done! Done in a flash, too! But the very closeness of the danger made it impossible for him to think of a plan. Good! -- he had an idea! He would run and grab the book, jump through the door and run away. But his courage failed for one little moment, and the chance was lost -- the teacher opened the book. If Tom could only have that missed chance back! Too late. There was no help for Becky now, he said to himself. The next moment the teacher faced the school. Every eye went down under his gaze. There was a silence while one might count to ten -- the teacher was building up his anger. Then he spoke: "Who tore this book?"

There was not a sound. It was so quiet you could have heard a pin drop. The stillness continued; the teacher searched face after face for signs of guilt.

"Benjamin Rogers, did you tear this book?"

A denial. Another pause.

"Joseph Harper, did you?"

Another denial. Tom's worry grew stronger under the slow pain of these questions. The teacher looked carefully at the rows of boys -- considered a while, then turned to the girls:

"Amy Lawrence?"

A shake of the head.

"Gracie Miller?"

The same sign.

"Susan Harper, did you do this?"

Another no. The next girl was Becky Thatcher. Tom was trembling from head to foot with worry and a sense of no hope.

"Rebecca Thatcher" [Tom glanced at her face -- it was white with terror] -- "did you tear -- no, look me in the face" [her hands rose in an appeal] -- "did you tear this book?"

A thought shot like lightning through Tom's mind. He jumped to his feet and shouted -- "I did it!"

The school stared in confusion at this amazing act. Tom stood a moment to collect himself; and when he stepped forward to go to his punishment the surprise, the gratitude, the great love that shone upon him out of poor Becky's eyes seemed payment enough for a hundred punishments. Inspired by the greatness of his own act, he accepted without a sound the harshest punishment that even Mr. Dobbins had ever given; and also accepted without reaction the added punishment of having to stay two hours after school -- for he knew who would wait for him outside until his time was up, and would not count the long time as a loss.

Tom went to bed that night planning revenge against Alfred Temple; for with shame and regret Becky had told him everything, not leaving out her own betrayal; but even the desire for revenge had to give way soon to more pleasant thoughts, and he fell asleep at last with Becky's final words floating in his mind --

"Tom, how COULD you be so noble!"