THERE comes a time in every normal boy's life when he has a strong desire to go somewhere and dig for hidden treasure. This desire suddenly came upon Tom one day. He went to find Joe Harper, but failed. Next he looked for Ben Rogers; he had gone fishing. Soon he came across Huck Finn the Red-Handed. Huck would help. Tom took him to a private place and shared the plan with him in secret. Huck was willing. Huck was always willing to join any activity that offered fun and required no money, for he had too much of that kind of free time that is not money. "Where'll we dig?" said Huck.

"Oh, almost anywhere."

"Why, is it hidden all around?"

"No, of course not. It's hidden in very specific places, Huck -- sometimes on islands, sometimes in rotten chests under the end of a branch of an old dead tree, just where the shadow falls at midnight; but mostly under the floor in haunted houses."

"Who hides it?"

"Why, robbers, of course -- who'd you think? Sunday school teachers?"

"I don't know. If it were mine I wouldn't hide it; I'd spend it and have a good time."

"So would I. But robbers don't do that way. They always hide it and leave it there."

"Don't they come back for it any more?"

"No, they plan to, but they generally forget the landmarks, or else they die. Anyway, it stays there a long time and gets rusty; and later somebody finds an old yellow paper that tells how to find the marks -- a paper that has to be worked out for about a week because it's mostly signs and symbols."

"What kind of writing?"

"Hieroglyphics -- pictures and things, you know, that don't seem to mean anything."

"Have you got one of those papers, Tom?"

"No."

"Well then, how are you going to find the landmarks?"

"I don't need landmarks. They always bury it under a haunted house or on an island, or under a dead tree that's got one branch sticking out. Well, we've tried Jackson's Island a little, and we can try it again some time; and there's the old haunted house up the Still-House branch, and there's lots of dead-branch trees -- lots of them."

"Is it under all of them?"

"No, of course not!"

"Then how are you going to know which one to go for?"

"Go for all of them!"

"Why, Tom, it'll take all summer."

"Well, what of that? Suppose you find a brass pot with a hundred dollars in it, all rusty and gray, or a rotten chest full of diamonds. How's that?"

Huck's eyes lit up.

"That's great. More than enough for me. Just give me the hundred dollars and I don't want any diamonds."

"All right. But I'm not going to ignore the diamonds. Some of them are worth twenty dollars each -- there aren't many that aren't worth six bits or a dollar."

"No! Is that true?"

"Certainly -- anybody will tell you so. Haven't you ever seen one, Huck?"

"Not that I remember."

"Oh, kings have lots of them."

"Well, I don't know any kings, Tom."

"I reckon you don't. But if you went to Europe you'd see plenty of them."

"Do they hop?"

"Hop? -- of course not! No!"

"Well, what did you say they did, for?"

"I only meant you'd SEE them -- not hopping, of course -- what would they want to hop for? -- but I mean you'd just see them -- scattered around, you know, in a general way. Like that old hunchbacked Richard."

"Richard? What's his other name?"

"He didn't have any other name. Kings only have a first name."

"No?"

"But they don't."

"Well, if they like it, Tom, all right; but I don't want to be a king and have only a first name, like any ordinary person. But say -- where are you going to dig first?"

"Well, I don't know. Suppose we try that old dead-branch tree on the hill on the other side of Still-House branch?"

"I agree."

So they got a damaged pick and a shovel, and started on their three-mile walk. They arrived hot and out of breath, and threw themselves down in the shade of a nearby elm to rest and have a smoke.

"I like this," said Tom.

"So do I."

"Say, Huck, if we find a treasure here, what are you going to do with your share?"

"Well, I'll have pie and a glass of soda every day, and I'll go to every circus that comes along. I bet I'll have a great time."

"Well, aren't you going to save any of it?"

"Save it? What for?"

"Why, so as to have something to live on later."

"Oh, that isn't any use. My dad would come back to town some day and get his hands on it if I didn't hurry up, and I tell you he'd spend it real fast. What are you going to do with yours, Tom?"

"I'm going to buy a new drum, and a real sword, and a red necktie and a dog, and get married."

"Married!"

"That's it."

"Tom, you -- why, you aren't thinking right."

"Wait -- you'll see."

"Well, that's the most foolish thing you could do. Look at my dad and my mother. Fight! Why, they used to fight all the time. I remember very well."

"That isn't anything. The girl I'm going to marry won't fight."

"Tom, I think they're all alike. They'll all nag. Now you better think about this for a while. I tell you, you better. What's her name?"

"It isn't a gal -- it's a girl."

"It's all the same, I think; some say gal, some say girl -- both are right, I suppose. Anyway, what's her name, Tom?"

"I'll tell you sometime -- not now."

"All right -- that'll do. Only if you get married I'll be lonelier than ever."

"No you won't. You'll come and live with me. Now get up from here and we'll go to digging."

They worked and sweated for half an hour. No result. They worked another half hour. Still no result. Huck said:

"Do they always bury it as deep as this?"

"Sometimes -- not always. Not usually. I think we haven't got the right place."

So they chose a new spot and began again. The work went slowly, but still they made progress. They kept working hard in silence for some time. Finally Huck leaned on his shovel, wiped the drops of sweat from his face with his sleeve, and said:

"Where are you going to dig next, after we finish this one?"

"I think maybe we'll try the old tree that's over there on Cardiff Hill behind the widow's."

"I think that'll be a good one. But won't the widow take it away from us, Tom? It's on her land."

"SHE take it away! Maybe she'd like to try! Whoever finds one of these hidden treasures, it belongs to them. It doesn't matter whose land it's on."

That was satisfactory. The work went on. After a while Huck said:

"Darn it, we must be in the wrong place again. What do you think?"

"It is very strange, Huck. I don't understand it. Sometimes witches interfere. I think maybe that's what's the trouble now."

"Nonsense! Witches don't have any power in the daytime."

"Well, that's true. I didn't think of that. Oh, I know what the problem is! What a pair of fools we are! You have to find out where the shadow of the branch falls at midnight, and that's where you dig!"

"Then we've wasted all this work for nothing. Now we've got to come back at night. It's a very long way. Can you get out?"

"I bet I will. We have to do it tonight, too, because if somebody sees these holes they'll know right away what we're after and they'll go for it."

"Well, I'll come around and meow tonight."

"All right. Let's hide the tools in the bushes."

The boys were there that night at about the right time. They sat in the shadow waiting. It was a lonely place, made serious by old stories. Spirits seemed to whisper in the rustling leaves, ghosts seemed to hide in the dark corners, the deep barking of a hound came from far away, an owl answered with its gloomy call. The boys were quieted by these serious sounds, and talked little. After a while they decided that midnight had come; they marked where the shadow fell, and began to dig. Their hopes began to rise. Their interest grew stronger, and their hard work kept pace with it. The hole got deeper and deeper, but every time their hearts jumped when the pick struck something, they only felt a new disappointment. It was only a stone or a piece of wood. At last Tom said:

"It's no use, Huck, we're wrong again."

"Well, but we CAN'T be wrong. We marked the shadow exactly."

"I know it, but then there's another thing."

"What's that?"

"Why, we only guessed at the time. It was probably too late or too early."

Huck put down his shovel.

"That's it," said he. "That's the very problem. We've got to give this one up. We can never tell the exact time, and besides this kind of thing is too scary, here at this time of night with witches and ghosts around. I feel as if something's behind me all the time; and I'm afraid to turn around because maybe there's something in front waiting for a chance. I've been shaking all over since I got here."

"Well, I've been pretty much the same, Huck. They almost always put a dead man in when they bury treasure under a tree, to guard it."

"Lord!"

"Yes, they do. I've always heard that."

"Tom, I don't like messing around where there are dead people. You're sure to get into trouble with them."

"I don't like disturbing them either. Suppose this one here was to stick his skull out and say something!"

"Don't, Tom! It's terrible."

"Well, it is terrible. Huck, I don't feel comfortable at all."

"Say, Tom, let's give this place up, and try somewhere else."

"All right, I think we better."

"What'll it be?"

Tom thought for a while; and then said:

"The haunted house. That's it!"

"Darn it, I don't like haunted houses, Tom. Why, they're much worse than dead people. Dead people might talk, maybe, but they don't come sliding around in a white sheet, when you aren't noticing, and suddenly look over your shoulder and grind their teeth, the way a ghost does. I couldn't stand such a thing as that, Tom -- nobody could."

"Yes, but, Huck, ghosts only travel around at night. They won't stop us from digging there in the daytime."

"Well, that's so. But people don't go near that haunted house in the day or the night."

"Well, that's mostly because people don't like to go where someone's been murdered -- but nothing's ever been seen around that house except at night -- just some blue lights moving past the windows -- not real ghosts."

"Well, where you see one of those blue lights flashing around, Tom, you can be sure there's a ghost close behind it. It makes sense. Because you know that nobody but ghosts use them."

"Yes, that's so. But anyway they don't come around in the daytime, so why should we be afraid?"

"Well, all right. We'll try the haunted house if you say so -- but I think we're taking chances."

They had started down the hill by this time. There in the middle of the moonlit valley below them stood the "haunted" house, completely alone, its fences gone long ago, tall, wild weeds growing over the very doorsteps, the chimney fallen apart, the windows empty, a corner of the roof caved in. The boys stared for a while, half expecting to see a blue light flash past a window; then talking quietly, as was right for the time and the situation, they went far to the right, to give the haunted house a wide space, and made their way home through the woods behind Cardiff Hill.