THE adventure of the day greatly troubled Tom's dreams that night. Four times he had his hands on that rich treasure and four times it disappeared into nothing in his fingers as sleep left him and waking brought back the hard reality of his bad luck. As he lay in the early morning thinking about the events of his great adventure, he noticed that they seemed strangely calm and far away -- somewhat as if they had happened in another world, or in a time long ago. Then it occurred to him that the great adventure itself must be a dream! There was one very strong reason for this idea -- namely, that the quantity of coins he had seen was too huge to be real. He had never seen as much as fifty dollars in one place before, and he was like all boys of his age and position in life, in that he thought all references to "hundreds" and "thousands" were just exaggerated ways of speaking, and that no such amounts really existed in the world. He had never once believed that a sum as large as a hundred dollars could actually be in anyone's possession. If you had examined his ideas of hidden treasure, you would have found them to consist of a handful of real coins and a large number of vague, wonderful, unreal dollars.

But the details of his adventure became clearer and sharper as he kept thinking about them, and so he soon began to think that the thing might not have been a dream after all. This uncertainty had to be settled. He would eat a quick breakfast and go to find Huck. Huck was sitting on the edge of a flatboat, without energy, dangling his feet in the water and looking very sad. Tom decided to let Huck bring up the subject. If he did not do it, then the adventure would be proved to have been only a dream.

"Hello, Huck!"

"Hello, yourself."

Silence for a minute.

"Tom, if we'd left the tools at the dead tree, we'd have gotten the money. Oh, isn't it terrible!"

"It isn't a dream, then, it isn't a dream! Somehow I almost wish it was. I really do, Huck."

"What isn't a dream?"

"Oh, that thing yesterday. I've been half thinking it was."

"A dream! If those stairs hadn't broken down you'd have seen how much of a dream it was! I've had dreams enough all night -- with that one-eyed Spanish devil coming after me all through them -- curse him!"

"No, don't curse him. FIND him! Follow the money!"

"Tom, we'll never find him. A fellow only has one chance at that kind of luck -- and that one's gone. I'd feel very nervous if I saw him anyway."

"Well, so would I; but I'd still like to see him -- and track him to his Number Two."

"Number Two -- yes, that's it. I've been thinking about that. But I can't figure it out. What do you think it means?"

"I don't know. It's too complicated. Say, Huck -- maybe it's the number of a house!"

"Great! ... No, Tom, that isn't it. If it is, it isn't in this small town. There are no house numbers here."

"Well, that's so. Let me think a minute. Here -- it's the number of a room -- in a hotel, you know!"

"Oh, that's the answer! There are only two taverns. We can find out quickly."

"You stay here, Huck, while I go."

Tom ran off. He did not want to have Huck's company in public places. He was gone half an hour. He found that in the nicer tavern, No. 2 had long been occupied by a young lawyer, and was still so occupied. In the less fancy one, No. 2 was a mystery. The tavern owner's young son said it was kept locked all the time, and he never saw anybody go into it or come out of it except at night; he had no particular explanation for this; he had been a little curious, but not very; he had entertained himself with the idea that the room was "haunted"; he had noticed there was a light in it the night before.

"That's what I've found out, Huck. I think that's the very No. 2 we're looking for."

"I think it is, Tom. Now what are you going to do?"

"Let me think."

Tom thought a long time. Then he said:

"I'll tell you. The back door of that No. 2 is the door that opens into that little narrow alley between the tavern and the old broken-down brick store. Now you get hold of all the door keys you can find, and I'll take all of auntie's, and the first dark night we'll go there and try them. And keep watch for Injun Joe, because he said he was going to come to town and look around for a chance to get his revenge. If you see him, follow him; and if he doesn't go to that No. 2, that isn't the place."

"Oh, I don't want to follow him by myself!"

"Why, it'll be night, of course. He might not even see you -- and if he did, maybe he'd never think anything of it."

"Well, if it's pretty dark I'll track him. I don't know -- I don't know. I'll try."

"You bet I'll follow him, if it's dark, Huck. Why, he might have found out he couldn't get his revenge and be going right after that money."

"That's true, Tom, that's true. I'll follow him; I will, I promise!"

"Now you're talking! Don't ever give up, Huck, and I won't."