THAT was Tom's great secret -- the plan to return home with his fellow pirates and attend their own funerals. They had paddled over to the Missouri shore on a log, at dusk on Saturday, landing five or six miles below the village; they had slept in the woods at the edge of the town until nearly daylight, and had then crept through back lanes and alleys and finished their sleep in the upper area of the church among a mess of broken benches.

At breakfast on Monday morning, Aunt Polly and Mary were very loving to Tom, and very attentive to his needs. There was an unusually large amount of talk. During the conversation Aunt Polly said:

"Well, I don't say it wasn't a fine joke, Tom, to keep everybody suffering for almost a week while you boys had a good time, but it is a pity you could be so heartless as to let me suffer so. If you could come over on a log to go to your funeral, you could have come over and given me some hint that you weren't dead, but only run off."

"Yes, you could have done that, Tom," said Mary; "and I believe you would if you had thought of it."

"Would you, Tom?" said Aunt Polly, her face lighting up with hope. "Say, now, would you, if you'd thought of it?"

"I -- well, I don't know. It would have ruined everything."

"Tom, I hoped you loved me that much," said Aunt Polly, with a sad tone that troubled the boy. "It would have been something if you'd cared enough to THINK of it, even if you didn't DO it."

"Now, auntie, that isn't any harm," said Mary kindly; "it's only Tom's careless way -- he is always in such a hurry that he never thinks of anything."

"That's the problem. Sid would have thought of it. And Sid would have come and DONE it, too. Tom, you'll look back someday, when it's too late, and wish you'd cared a little more for me when it would have cost you so little."

"Now, auntie, you know I do care for you," said Tom.

"I'd know it better if you acted more like it."

"I wish now I'd thought," said Tom, with a sorry tone; "but I dreamed about you, anyway. That's something, isn't it?"

"It isn't much -- a cat does that much -- but it's better than nothing. What did you dream?"

"Why, Wednesday night I dreamed that you were sitting over there by the bed, and Sid was sitting by the wood box, and Mary next to him."

"Well, so we did. So we always do. I'm glad your dreams could take even that much notice of us."

"And I dreamed that Joe Harper's mother was here."

"Why, she was here! Did you dream any more?"

"Oh, lots. But it's all unclear now."

"Well, try to remember -- can't you?"

"Somehow it seems to me that the wind -- the wind blew the -- the --"

"Try harder, Tom! The wind did blow something. Come!"

Tom pressed his fingers on his forehead for an anxious moment, and then said:

"I've got it now! I've got it now! It blew the candle!"

"Goodness! Go on, Tom -- go on!"

"And it seems to me that you said, 'Why, I believe that that door --'"

"Go ON, Tom!"

"Just let me think for a moment -- just a moment. Oh, yes -- you said you believed the door was open."

"As I'm sitting here, I did! Didn't I, Mary! Go on!"

"And then -- and then -- well, I won't be certain, but it seems as if you made Sid go and -- and --"

"Well? Well? What did I make him do, Tom? What did I make him do?"

"You made him -- you -- Oh, you made him shut it."

"Well, I never heard anything like that in all my days! Don't tell ME there isn't anything to dreams anymore. I'm going to tell Sereny Harper this before an hour's up. I'd like to see her say it's all nonsense and superstition. Go on, Tom!"

"Oh, it's all becoming as clear as day, now. Next you said I wasn't BAD, only naughty and wild, and not any more responsible than -- than -- I think it was a young horse, or something."

"And so it was! Well, goodness gracious! Go on, Tom!"

"And then you began to cry."

"So I did. So I did. Not the first time, either. And then --"

"Then Mrs. Harper she began to cry, and said Joe was just the same, and she wished she hadn't hit him for taking cream when she'd thrown it out herself --"

"Tom! The spirit was upon you! You were predicting -- that's what you were doing! Goodness, go on, Tom!"

"Then Sid he said -- he said --"

"I don't think I said anything," said Sid.

"Yes you did, Sid," said Mary.

"Be quiet and let Tom go on! What did he say, Tom?"

"He said -- I THINK he said he hoped I was better off where I had gone, but if I'd been better sometimes --"

"THERE, did you hear that! It was his exact words!"

"And you told him off."

"I bet I did! There must have been an angel there. There WAS an angel there, somewhere!"

"And Mrs. Harper told about Joe scaring her with a firecracker, and you told about Peter and the Pain-killer --"

"Just as true as I live!"

"And then there was a lot of talk about searching the river for us, and about having the funeral Sunday, and then you and old Mrs. Harper hugged and cried, and she left."

"It happened just so! It happened just so, as sure as I'm sitting right here. Tom, you couldn't have told it more accurately if you'd seen it! And then what? Go on, Tom!"

"Then I thought you prayed for me -- and I could see you and hear every word you said. And you went to bed, and I was so sorry that I took and wrote on a piece of sycamore bark, 'We aren't dead -- we are only off being pirates,' and put it on the table by the candle; and then you looked so peaceful, lying there asleep, that I thought I went and leaned over and kissed you on the lips."

"Did you, Tom, DID you! I just forgive you everything for that!" And she held the boy in a very tight embrace that made him feel like the worst kind of person.

"It was very kind, even though it was only a -- dream," Sid said to himself, just loud enough to be heard.

"Be quiet, Sid! A person does just the same in a dream as they would if they were awake. Here's a big apple I've been saving for you, Tom, in case you were ever found again -- now go to school. I'm thankful to the good God and Father of us all that I've got you back, that is patient and kind to those who believe in Him and keep His word, though goodness knows I'm not deserving of it, but if only the deserving ones got His blessings and had His hand to help them over the rough places, there would be few enough smiling here or ever entering His rest when the long night comes. Off you go, Sid, Mary, Tom -- get yourselves away -- you've made me late enough."

The children left for school, and the old lady went to visit Mrs. Harper and disprove her skeptical doubts with Tom's amazing dream. Sid had better sense than to say out loud the thought that was in his mind as he left the house. It was this: "Pretty weak -- for such a long dream, without any mistakes in it!"

What a hero Tom was now! He did not go skipping and jumping, but walked with a proud step, as was right for a pirate who felt that everyone was watching him. And indeed it was; he pretended not to notice the looks or hear the comments as he passed along, but they were exactly what he wanted. Younger boys gathered quickly behind him, proud to be seen with him, and glad to follow him, as if he had been the leader of a parade. Boys of his own age pretended not to know he had been away at all; but they were burning with envy. They would have given anything to have that dark, tanned skin of his, and his wonderful fame; and Tom would not have traded either for anything.

At school the children made so much of him and of Joe, and showed such strong admiration in their eyes, that the two heroes were not long in becoming extremely proud. They began to tell their adventures to eager listeners -- but they only began; it was not a thing likely to end, with imaginations like theirs. And finally, when they got out their pipes and calmly began puffing away, the very highest point of glory was reached.

Tom decided that he could do very well without Becky Thatcher now. Fame was enough. He would live for fame. Now that he was famous, maybe she would want to "make up." Well, let her -- she would see that he could be as uncaring as some other people. Presently she arrived. Tom pretended not to see her. He moved away and joined a group of boys and girls and began to talk. Soon he noticed that she was happily running back and forth with a flushed face and dancing eyes, pretending to be busy chasing schoolmates, and screaming with laughter when she caught someone; but he noticed that she always made her catches in his area, and that she seemed to cast a knowing eye in his direction at such times too. It pleased all the pride that was in him; and so, instead of winning him over, it only made him prouder and more careful to pretend he did not know she was around. Presently she stopped playing around, and moved about uncertainly, sighing once or twice and glancing secretly and sadly toward Tom. Then she noticed that Tom was talking more particularly to Amy Lawrence than to anyone else. She felt a sharp pain and became troubled and uneasy at once. She tried to walk away, but her feet carried her toward the group instead. She said to a girl almost at Tom's elbow -- with fake excitement:

"Why, Mary Austin! You bad girl, why didn't you come to Sunday school?"

"I did come -- didn't you see me?"

"Why, no! Did you? Where did you sit?"

"I was in Miss Peters' class, where I always go. I saw YOU."

"Did you? Why, it's strange I didn't see you. I wanted to tell you about the picnic."

"Oh, that's fun. Who's giving it?"

"My mother is going to let me have one."

"Oh, wonderful; I hope she'll let ME come."

"Well, she will. The picnic's for me. She'll let anybody come that I want, and I want you."

"That's very nice. When is it going to be?"

"Later. Maybe around vacation time."

"Oh, won't it be fun! Are you going to have all the girls and boys?"

"Yes, everyone who is friends with me -- or wants to be"; and she glanced very secretly at Tom, but he kept talking to Amy Lawrence about the terrible storm on the island, and how the lightning tore the great sycamore tree "all to little pieces" while he was "standing within three feet of it."

"Oh, may I come?" said Grace Miller.

"Yes."

"And me?" said Sally Rogers.

"Yes."

"And me too?" said Susy Harper. "And Joe?"

"Yes."

And so on, with clapping of happy hands until all the group had asked for invitations except Tom and Amy. Then Tom turned coldly away, still talking, and took Amy with him. Becky's lips trembled and the tears came to her eyes; she hid these signs with a forced smile and went on chattering, but the life had gone out of the picnic, and out of everything else; she got away as soon as she could and hid herself and had what her kind calls "a good cry." Then she sat sadly, with hurt pride, until the bell rang. She woke up now, with a desire for revenge in her eye, and gave her braided hair a shake and said she knew what SHE would do.

At break time Tom continued his attention to Amy with great self-satisfaction. And he kept walking around to find Becky and hurt her with his behavior. At last he saw her, but there was a sudden drop in his happiness. She was sitting comfortably on a little bench behind the schoolhouse looking at a picture book with Alfred Temple -- and so focused were they, and their heads so close together over the book, that they did not seem to notice anything else in the world. Jealousy burned hot through Tom. He began to hate himself for wasting the chance Becky had offered him for making up. He called himself a fool, and all the bad names he could think of. He wanted to cry with anger. Amy talked happily along as they walked, for her heart was singing, but Tom's tongue had stopped working. He did not hear what Amy was saying, and whenever she paused expecting an answer he could only stutter an awkward agreement, which was as often wrong as not. He kept going to the back of the schoolhouse again and again, to hurt himself with the hateful sight there. He could not help it. And it angered him to see, as he thought he saw, that Becky Thatcher never once seemed to know he was even in the world. But she did see him, and she knew she was winning her fight, and was glad to see him suffer as she had suffered.

Amy's happy chatter became unbearable. Tom made excuses about things he had to do; things that needed to be done; and time was passing. But it was no use -- the girl kept talking cheerfully. Tom thought, "Oh, why can't I get away from her?" At last he said he had to take care of those things -- and she said simply that she would be "around" when school let out. And he hurried away, angry at her for it.

"Any other boy!" Tom thought, grinding his teeth. "Any boy in the whole town but that show-off from St. Louis who thinks he dresses so well and is so important! Oh, all right, I beat you the first day you ever came to this town, and I'll beat you again! You just wait till I catch you! I'll just take and --"

And he went through the motions of beating an imaginary boy -- punching the air, and kicking. "Oh, you give up, do you? Now, then, let that teach you!" And so the imaginary fight was finished to his satisfaction.

Tom went home at noon. His guilt could not stand any more of Amy's thankful happiness, and his jealousy could bear no more of the other pain. Becky went back to looking at the picture book with Alfred, but as the minutes passed slowly and Tom did not come to suffer, her triumph began to fade and she lost interest; seriousness and distraction followed, and then sadness; two or three times she listened hopefully at a footstep, but it was a false hope; no Tom came. At last she grew completely miserable and wished she had not gone so far. When poor Alfred, seeing that he was losing her, kept saying: "Oh, here's a great one! Look at this!" she lost patience at last, and said, "Oh, don't bother me! I don't care for them!" and burst into tears, and got up and walked away.

Alfred was left behind, wondering what he could have done wrong -- for she had said she would look at pictures all through the noon break -- and she walked on, crying. Then Alfred went thinking into the empty schoolhouse. He was embarrassed and angry. He easily figured out the truth -- the girl had simply used him to show her anger toward Tom Sawyer. He was far from hating Tom any less when this thought came to him. He wanted to find some way to get that boy into trouble without much risk to himself. Tom's spelling book caught his eye. Here was his chance. He gratefully opened it to the lesson for the afternoon and poured ink on the page.

Becky, looking in through a window behind him at that moment, saw the act, and walked on without being seen. She started toward home, planning to find Tom and tell him; Tom would be grateful and their troubles would be fixed. Before she was half way home, however, she had changed her mind. The thought of Tom's treatment of her when she was talking about her picnic came burning back and filled her with shame. She decided to let him get punished for the damaged spelling book, and to hate him forever, on top of that.