TOM arrived at home in a sad mood, and the first thing his aunt said to him showed him that he had brought his troubles to an unfriendly place:

"Tom, I feel like giving you a good spanking!"

"Auntie, what have I done?"

"Well, you've done enough. Here I go over to Sereny Harper, like a fool, expecting to make her believe all that nonsense about that dream, when she'd found out from Joe that you were over here and heard all the talk we had that night. Tom, I don't know what will become of a boy who acts like that. It makes me feel so bad to think you could let me go to Sereny Harper and make such a fool of myself and never say a word."

This was a new way of looking at things. His clever plan of the morning had seemed to Tom like a good joke before, and very clever. It only seemed mean and low now. He hung his head and could not think of anything to say for a moment. Then he said:

"Auntie, I wish I hadn't done it -- but I didn't think."

"Oh, child, you never think. You never think of anything but yourself. You could think to come all the way over here from Jackson's Island in the night to laugh at our troubles, and you could think to fool me with a lie about a dream; but you couldn't ever think to feel sorry for us and save us from sorrow."

"Auntie, I know now it was wrong, but I didn't mean to be wrong. I really didn't. And besides, I didn't come over here to laugh at you that night."

"What did you come for, then?"

"It was to tell you not to worry about us, because we hadn't drowned."

"Tom, Tom, I would be the most thankful person in this world if I could believe you ever had such a good thought as that, but you know you never did -- and I know it, Tom."

"I really did, auntie -- I promise I did."

"Oh, Tom, don't lie -- don't do it. It only makes things a hundred times worse."

"It isn't a lie, auntie; it's the truth. I wanted to keep you from worrying -- that was all that made me come."

"I'd give the whole world to believe that -- it would make up for a lot, Tom. I'd almost be glad you'd run off and behaved so badly. But it isn't believable; because, why didn't you tell me, child?"

"Why, you see, when you started talking about the funeral, I just got so excited about the idea of us coming and hiding in the church, and I couldn't bring myself to ruin it. So I just put the bark back in my pocket and kept quiet."

"What bark?"

"The bark I had written on to tell you we'd gone pirating. I wish now you'd woken up when I kissed you -- I really do."

The hard lines in his aunt's face softened and a sudden tenderness appeared in her eyes.

"DID you kiss me, Tom?"

"Why, yes, I did."

"Are you sure you did, Tom?"

"Why, yes, I did, auntie -- I'm certain."

"What did you kiss me for, Tom?"

"Because I loved you so, and you were lying there crying softly and I was so sorry."

The words sounded true. The old lady could not hide a shakiness in her voice when she said:

"Kiss me again, Tom! -- and be off with you to school, now, and don't bother me any more."

The moment he was gone, she ran to a closet and got out the ruined jacket that Tom had gone pirating in. Then she stopped, with it in her hand, and said to herself:

"No, I don't dare. Poor boy, I think he's lied about it -- but it's a wonderful, wonderful lie, it brings such comfort. I hope the Lord -- I KNOW the Lord will forgive him, because it showed such a good heart in him to tell it. But I don't want to find out it's a lie. I won't look."

She put the jacket away, and stood thinking for a minute. Twice she reached out her hand to take the jacket again, and twice she held back. Once more she dared, and this time she strengthened herself with the thought: "It's a good lie -- it's a good lie -- I won't let it worry me." So she searched the jacket pocket. A moment later she was reading Tom's piece of bark through flowing tears and saying: "I could forgive the boy now, if he'd done a million wrong things!"