HUCK said: "Tom, we can escape if we can find a rope. The window isn't very high from the ground." "Oh come on! What do you want to escape for?" "Well, I'm not used to that kind of crowd. I can't deal with it. I'm not going down there, Tom." "Oh, stop it! It's nothing. I don't mind it at all. I'll take care of you." Sid appeared. "Tom," said he, "auntie has been waiting for you all the afternoon. Mary got your Sunday clothes ready, and everybody's been worried about you. Say -- isn't this grease and clay, on your clothes?" "Now, Mr. Siddy, you just pay attention to your own business. What's all this big party about, anyway?" "It's one of the widow's parties that she's always giving. This time it's for the Welshman and his sons, because of the danger they saved her from the other night. And say -- I can tell you something, if you want to know." "Well, what?" "Why, old Mr. Jones is going to try to surprise everyone here tonight, but I overheard him tell auntie about it today as a secret, but I don't think it's much of a secret now. Everybody knows -- the widow too, even though she pretends she doesn't. Mr. Jones was determined Huck should be here -- he couldn't have his great surprise without Huck, you know!" "Secret about what, Sid?" "About Huck tracking the robbers to the widow's. I think Mr. Jones was going to make a big scene of his surprise, but I bet it'll fall pretty flat." Sid laughed softly in a very pleased and satisfied way. "Sid, was it you that told?" "Oh, never mind who it was. SOMEONE told -- that's enough." "Sid, there's only one person in this town mean enough to do that, and that's you. If you had been in Huck's place you'd have sneaked off the hill and never told anybody about the robbers. You can't do anything but mean things, and you can't bear to see anybody praised for doing good ones. There -- and thank you anyway, as the widow says" -- and Tom hit Sid's ears and helped him to the door with several kicks. "Now go and tell auntie if you dare -- and tomorrow you'll be punished!" Some minutes later the widow's guests were at the supper table, and a dozen children were seated at smaller side tables in the same room, as was the custom in that country and time. At the right moment Mr. Jones made his little speech, in which he thanked the widow for the honor she was doing him and his sons, but said that there was another person whose modesty -- And so forth and so on. He told his secret about Huck's part in the adventure in the most dramatic way he knew, but the surprise it caused was largely pretended and not as loud and enthusiastic as it might have been if things had gone better. However, the widow made a decent show of being surprised, and praised Huck so much and was so grateful that he almost forgot the discomfort of his new clothes in the even greater discomfort of being set up as a target for everybody's gaze and everybody's praise. The widow said she meant to give Huck a home under her roof and have him educated; and that when she could afford it she would start him in a small business. Tom's chance had come. He said: "Huck doesn't need it. Huck's rich." Nothing but good manners kept back the expected polite laughter at this joke. But the silence was a little awkward. Tom broke it: "Huck's got money. Maybe you don't believe it, but he's got lots of it. Oh, you needn't smile -- I think I can show you. You just wait a minute." Tom ran outside. The company looked at each other with confused interest -- and asked Huck questions, who was unable to speak. "Sid, what's the matter with Tom?" said Aunt Polly. "He -- well, there's never any making sense of that boy. I never --" Tom entered, struggling with the weight of his bags, and Aunt Polly did not finish her sentence. Tom poured the mass of gold coins on the table and said: "There -- what did I tell you? Half of it's Huck's and half of it's mine!" The sight took everyone's breath away. All stared, nobody spoke for a moment. Then there was a general request for an explanation. Tom said he could give one, and he did. The story was long, but full of interest. There was hardly an interruption from anyone as the story flowed. When he had finished, Mr. Jones said: "I thought I had prepared a little surprise for this occasion, but it doesn't amount to anything now. This one makes it seem very small, I'll admit." The money was counted. The total came to a little over twelve thousand dollars. It was more than anyone present had ever seen at one time before, though several people there were worth considerably more than that in possessions.