THAT night Tom and Huck were ready for their adventure. They stayed near the tavern until after nine, one watching the alley from a distance and the other watching the tavern door. Nobody entered the alley or left it; nobody who looked like the Spaniard entered or left the tavern. The night looked like it would be clear, so Tom went home with the agreement that if it became quite dark, Huck was to come and "meow," and then he would slip out and try the keys. But the night stayed clear, and Huck ended his watch and went to sleep in an empty sugar barrel around midnight.

Tuesday the boys had the same bad luck. Wednesday also. But Thursday night looked more promising. Tom slipped out at a good hour with his aunt's old tin lantern, and a large towel to wrap it with. He hid the lantern in Huck's sugar barrel and the watch began. An hour before midnight the tavern closed up and its lights (the only ones nearby) were put out. No Spaniard had been seen. Nobody had entered or left the alley. Everything was favorable. The deepest darkness surrounded them, the perfect stillness was interrupted only by occasional low sounds of distant thunder.

Tom got his lantern, lit it in the barrel, wrapped it tightly in the towel, and the two adventurers crept through the darkness toward the tavern. Huck stood guard and Tom felt his way into the alley. Then there was a period of anxious waiting that weighed on Huck's spirits like a heavy load. He began to wish he could see a flash from the lantern -- it would frighten him, but at least it would tell him that Tom was still alive. It seemed like hours since Tom had disappeared. Surely he must have fainted; maybe he was dead; maybe his heart had stopped from terror and excitement. In his worry Huck found himself drawing closer and closer to the alley; imagining all sorts of terrible things, and every moment expecting some disaster that would take his breath away. There was not much breath to take, for he could only breathe in small amounts, and his heart would soon wear itself out the way it was beating. Suddenly there was a flash of light and Tom came running quickly past him:

"Run!" said he; "run for your life!"

He needn't have said it twice; once was enough; Huck was running at full speed before the words were finished. The boys never stopped until they reached the shelter of a deserted building at the lower end of the village. Just as they reached it the storm began suddenly and the rain poured down. As soon as Tom got his breath he said:

"Huck, it was terrible! I tried two of the keys, as softly as I could; but they seemed to make such noise that I could hardly breathe I was so scared. They wouldn't turn in the lock either. Well, without thinking what I was doing, I grabbed the doorknob, and the door opened! It wasn't locked! I jumped in, and threw off the towel, and, GREAT CAESAR'S GHOST!"

"What! -- what did you see, Tom?"

"Huck, I almost stepped on Injun Joe's hand!"

"No!"

"Yes! He was lying there, sound asleep on the floor, with his old patch on his eye and his arms stretched out."

"Lord! What did you do? Did he wake up?"

"No, he never moved. Drunk, I think. I just grabbed that towel and ran!"

"I'd never have thought of the towel, I bet!"

"Well, I would. My aunt would be very upset if I lost it."

"Say, Tom, did you see that box?"

"Huck, I didn't wait to look around. I didn't see the box, I didn't see the cross. I didn't see anything but a bottle and a tin cup on the floor by Injun Joe; yes, I saw two barrels and lots more bottles in the room. Don't you see now what's the matter with that haunted room?"

"How?"

"Why, it's haunted with whiskey! Maybe ALL the Temperance Taverns have a haunted room, hey, Huck?"

"Well, I think maybe that's so. Who would have thought such a thing? But say, Tom, now is a great time to get that box, if Injun Joe's drunk."

"It is that! You try it!"

Huck shook with fear.

"Well, no -- I don't think so."

"And I don't think so either, Huck. Only one bottle near Injun Joe isn't enough. If there had been three, he'd be drunk enough and I'd do it."

There was a long pause for thinking, and then Tom said:

"Listen, Huck, let's not try that again until we know Injun Joe isn't in there. It's too scary. Now, if we watch every night, we'll definitely see him go out sometime, and then we'll grab that box in a flash."

"Well, I agree. I'll watch the whole night long, and I'll do it every night too, if you'll do the other part."

"All right, I will. All you have to do is walk up Hooper Street a block and meow -- and if I'm asleep, throw some gravel at the window and that'll wake me."

"Agreed and certain!"

"Now, Huck, the storm's over, and I'll go home. It'll start getting light in a couple of hours. You go back and watch that place, will you?"

"I said I would, Tom, and I will. I'll watch that tavern every night for a year! I'll sleep all day and stand watch all night."

"That's all right. Now, where are you going to sleep?"

"In Ben Rogers' hayloft. He lets me, and so does his father's worker, Uncle Jake. I carry water for Uncle Jake whenever he wants me to, and any time I ask he gives me a little something to eat if he can spare it. That's a very good man, Tom. He likes me because I don't ever act like I'm better than him. Sometimes I've sat right down and eaten WITH him. But you don't need to tell that. A person has to do things when he's very hungry that he wouldn't want to do all the time."

"Well, if I don't need you in the daytime, I'll let you sleep. I won't come bothering around. Any time you see something's happening at night, just run around and meow."