For two days Kong-Hwa was good — no classmate complained, no neighbour complained. He studied his lessons and obeyed his teacher. Then he went back to his mother's house. He saw that she was alive, and within a few days he was as bad as ever again.

"I cannot teach him. He must learn things for himself," said his mother. "I do not know what else I can do."

And so it continued until he was twelve years old. His mother kept trying to help him do what was right, but it seemed to be no use.

Shortly after he turned twelve, he came home from school one day and said, "Mü-Ts'ing, I want to go to Siang-Sze. I will leave school. Nobody likes me; nobody plays with me. I do not like school and I will not go anymore. I am going to become a merchant and make money."

His mother thought he was too young to know what he really wanted, and so she paid little attention to him. But he kept insisting, and finally she said, "Go and speak to your father."

His father was surprised and asked, "You want to make money? How can you make money without money? Siang-Sze is very far away and it will cost a lot to get there. And then you will need even more money to become a merchant."

Kong-Hwa said, "Give me enough money to reach Siang-Sze and I will go." He kept insisting until his father hit him and said, "Now go back to school. I do not want to hear any more of this."

Kong-Hwa was clever and determined. He quietly borrowed a little money here and a little there, and then he ran away to Siang-Sze.

For many days his mother tried to find him. She did not think he would go far on his own. Finally she found out that he had gone to Siang-Sze and stopped searching for him.

Nine years had passed when a man from Siang-Sze told them he had seen Kong-Hwa there. His parents wrote to him, but no reply came. Thirteen years went by and they thought, "We will never see his face again."

One day Kong-Hwa, who was still living in Siang-Sze, said to a friend, "I must go home now, if I can get enough money. I have learned some important lessons about life and now I am going."

His friend said, "We have a good life in Siang-Sze. Why do you want to leave?"

"This is not where I should be," answered Kong-Hwa. "I have tried many things here and in all these thirteen years I have had no success. Nobody will hire me as a bookkeeper. I tried to be a trade agent, and after two months I was let go. Then I worked in a bank for forty days, and they paid my salary and told me to leave. Tomorrow I need money to pay my rent, which is three months late, but I have no money. I order clothes and they say, 'No money, no clothes.' I ask friends to lend me some, and they do not even reply.

"I can see now that I have been very foolish. I have been here thirteen years and all I tried to do was enjoy myself. I drink, I smoke, I dance, I go to theatres and halls every night — every night. I spend all my money when I have work. Now I have no work, all my friends have left me, and they will not lend me even a small coin. I have been very bad. I was a bad boy at home. My mother was good and gave me many lessons that I refused to learn.

"Because my mother was so good, I have no excuse for the terrible situation I am in now. I must go home and show her that I am sorry at last. I understand now that in all the world there is no friend like a mother.

"I will write to her tomorrow and say in my letter, 'Mü-Ts'ing, I am going to give up the opium, the theatre, and the dancing — all the bad things.' I will ask her to send me money to come home, and then I will take my father's place on the farm.

"I will take the oxen and plough the rice fields, plant the corn, and tell my father to rest. I will help my mother so she will not need to cook or do any other work. There is no one like a father and mother, and there is no place like home for me now."

Kong-Hwa wrote the letter and sent it with a friend, asking him to speak well on his behalf, because he felt he deserved nothing after causing his parents so much pain.

"Thirteen long years, and at last a letter from our dear son," cried Kong-Hwa's mother.

His parents were full of joy and asked the man who brought the news everything about him. How long would it take for the letter and money they would send to reach him? Would he come right away?

His mother wrote: "My son, Kong-Hwa, come home. We believe you will do what you say in your letter. The house, the land, and everything we have is yours, and we will be overjoyed to have you come and take care of them. The time will feel very long until you are here."

Kong-Hwa went to his parents as soon as their letter and money arrived. And from that time on he was a good man. He served his parents and brought happiness to their old age. He did everything he had promised. He took the oxen and ploughed the rice fields. He planted the corn, he helped his mother in the house, and everyone was happy.