Kong-Hwa's father and mother were farmers. They had a nice home and would have been very happy together, but after Kong-Hwa turned four years old, he became a bad and disobedient boy.

He would not listen to his mother's teachings. She was a good woman and tried many different ways to make him behave well. At school he was considered a very clever boy and learned quickly, but he would not obey his teacher.

Kong-Hwa was only seven years old when he came home one day carrying his books. He had run away from school.

As he came into the room where his mother was working, he called out, "Mü-Ts'ing, why are you doing that?"

She was cutting a large, fine piece of cloth into small pieces. She had woven that cloth to make clothes for the family. "Why are you ruining the cloth, mother?"

"Yes, my son, it is true that I am ruining the cloth. It is now good for nothing. It cannot make clothes for your father, clothes for you, or clothes for me. It is wasted and cannot even be used as cleaning cloths. It is not useful for anything. Do you know why I did this, my boy?"

"No, Mü-Ts'ing, why did you do it?"

"Here is my reason, my son: I very much want you to be good and to study your lessons at school every day. I hope and hope that one day you will become a good and wise man and do something good for your father, your mother, and your country. I also hoped to make your clothes from this cloth.

"But your teacher says you run away, go to the seesaw, play in the water, climb trees, throw stones at the little birds all day, and will not study.

"You are wasting your time just as I have wasted this nice new cloth — cutting it into useless little pieces. I once thought you were a wise child, but you are not. You are being very foolish."

Kong-Hwa cried and felt sad while his mother spoke, and then he said, "I will go back to school tomorrow. Can you repair the cloth or make another piece, Mü-Ts'ing?"

"I will wait and see if you truly mean to be a good boy," said his mother.

The next morning he got up early, took his books, and went straight to school. But within a few days he was as bad as before.

The other children at school and the neighbours complained about the boy who caused so much trouble. His mother had only this one little son, and as people came to her with their complaints, she felt that she could almost die from sadness.

She lay awake all night thinking, "What can I do to teach my boy to do what is right? Who can teach a boy if not his own mother? I must think of a way."

The next morning Kong-Hwa got up at his usual time and went into the kitchen to eat. But the kitchen was dark. There was no fire and no food.

He said to himself, "This is strange. It is late and there is no breakfast." He went to his mother's room and called, "Mü-Ts'ing," but there was no answer. He went close to her bed and touched her, but she did not move.

He then ran to his aunt and told her to come and see — he was sure his mother was dead.

She said, "Perhaps the gods have taken her away because you have been such a bad boy. Will you be a better boy now?" And he promised. Then she ran to her sister's house to see if she was really dead.

Kong-Hwa waited outside, shaking with fear, while his aunt went in. She quickly saw that her sister was not dead and told her about Kong-Hwa's promise.

"Did my boy think I was dead?" asked his mother. "Well, keep him at your house for two or three days and send him to school. Let him think and think, and perhaps he will become a better boy."

Kong-Hwa's aunt told him that if he learned his lessons and obeyed his teacher, perhaps the gods would allow his mother to stay with him after all.

While his aunt prepared breakfast for him, he asked many questions. "What happened to my mother? Will there be a funeral?"

"Never mind," said the aunt. "Go to school and stop behaving so badly, and we shall see what happens. Perhaps your mother will come back to life."