

After his third foolish wish, Reddy Fox left the Smiling Pool and headed straight for the Old Pasture, where he had been trying to go in the first place. He now wished he had gone straight there. Then he wouldn't have seen the fat tied out of reach on the branch in the Old Orchard. He wouldn't have seen the Bob Whites fly to safety just as he felt almost sure of catching one. He wouldn't have seen Billy Mink pull a fine fish out of the water and eat it right in front of him. It is bad enough to be starving with no food in sight, but to be as hungry as Reddy was and to see food just out of reach, to smell it and not be able to get it, is — well, it is more than most people can handle patiently.

So Reddy Fox was complaining to himself as he hurried to the Old Pasture, and his heart was bitter. It seemed to him that everything was against him. His neighbors had food, but he had none — not even a crumb. It was unfair. Old Mother Nature was unjust. If he could climb, he could get food. If he could fly, he could get food. If he could dive, he could get food. But he could not climb, fly, or dive. He didn't stop to think that Old Mother Nature had given him some of the sharpest minds in all the Green Forest or on all the Green Meadows. That she had given him a wonderful nose. That she had given him very keen ears. That she had given him speed that few could match. He forgot these things and was so busy thinking bitterly about what he didn't have that he forgot to use his mind, his nose, and his ears when he reached the Old Pasture. The result was that he trotted right past Old Jed Thumper, the big gray Rabbit, who was sitting behind a little bush, holding his breath. The minute Old Jed saw that Reddy was safely past, he started for his bull-briar home as fast as he could.

It was only then that Reddy noticed him. Of course Reddy started after him, and this time he used his speed well. But he was too late. Old Jed Thumper reached his home with Reddy just two jumps behind him. Reddy knew there was no chance of catching Old Jed that day, and for a few minutes he felt more bitter than ever. Then all at once Reddy Fox became the clever, sharp fellow that he really is. He smiled.

"It's no use trying to fill an empty stomach with wishes," said he.

"If I had come straight here and minded my own business, I would have caught old Jed Thumper. Now I am going to get some food, and I am not going home until I do."

Very wisely, Reddy put all unhappy thoughts out of his head and settled down to using his mind, his eyes, his ears, and his nose for everything they were worth, just as Old Mother Nature had intended.

All through the Old Pasture he searched, being careful not to miss a single spot where there was even the smallest chance of finding food. But it was all for nothing. Reddy swallowed his disappointment.

"Now for the Big River," said he, and started off bravely.

When he reached the edge of the Big River, he hurried along the bank until he came to a place where the water rarely freezes. As he had hoped, he found that it was not frozen now. It looked so dark and cold that it made him shiver just to see it. Back and forth with his nose to the ground he ran. Suddenly he stopped and sniffed. Then he sniffed again. Then he followed his nose straight to the very edge of the Big River. There, floating in the dark water, was a dead fish! He could get it by wading in.

Reddy shivered as the cold water touched him, but what were wet feet compared to such an empty stomach? In a minute he had that fish and was back on shore. It wasn't a very big fish, but it would stop the ache in his stomach until he could get something more. With a sigh of pure happiness he sank his teeth into it — and then — well, then he remembered poor old Granny Fox. Reddy swallowed one mouthful and tried to forget Granny. But he couldn't. He swallowed another mouthful. Poor old Granny was back there at home, as hungry as he was, and too stiff and tired to hunt. Reddy struggled with himself. His stomach demanded that fish. If he ate it, no one would know. But Granny needed it even more than he did. For a long time Reddy fought with himself. In the end, he picked up the fish and started for home.

