

Tommy Tit and Drummer the Woodpecker and Yank Yank the Nuthatch and Sammy Jay and Chatterer the Red Squirrel were not the only ones who were out and about as soon as the great storm ended. Oh no! Not at all! Everybody who was not sleeping the winter away, or who did not have a store of food close by, was out. But not everyone was as lucky as Tommy Tit and his friends in finding a good meal.

Peter Rabbit and Mrs. Peter came out of the hole in the middle of the dear Old Briar-patch, where they had managed to stay comfortably warm, and immediately began to fill their stomachs with bark from young trees and tender tips of twigs. It was very rough food, but it would take away that empty feeling. Mrs. Grouse burst out of the snow and hurried to get a meal before dark. She had no time to be fussy, and so she ate spruce buds. They were very bitter and not much to her liking, but she was too hungry, and night was too close for her to be picky. She was thankful to have that much.

Granny Fox and Reddy were out too. They didn't need to hurry because, as you know, they could hunt all night. But they were so hungry that they just had to be looking for something to eat. They knew, of course, that everybody else would be out, and they hoped that some of these little people would be so weak from the storm that they could easily be caught. That seems like a terrible hope, doesn't it? But one of the first laws of Old Mother Nature is to save your own life first. So perhaps Granny and Reddy cannot be blamed for hoping that some of their neighbors might be easy to catch after the great storm. They were very hungry, and they could not eat bark like Peter Rabbit, or buds like Mrs. Grouse, or seeds like Whitefoot the Woodmouse. Their teeth and stomachs are not made for such food.

It was hard going for Granny and Reddy Fox. The snow was soft and deep in many places, and they had to stay close to the spots where rough Brother North Wind had blown away enough snow to make walking fairly easy. They soon found that their hope of finding weak neighbors to catch was completely wrong. When jolly, round, red Mr. Sun dropped down behind the Purple Hills to go to bed, their stomachs were just as empty as when they had started out.

"We'll go down to the Old Briar-patch. I don't think it will help much, but you never know until you try. Peter Rabbit may be silly enough to come outside," said Granny, leading the way.

When they reached the dear Old Briar-patch they found that Peter was not outside. In fact, looking through the branches and bushes, they could see his small brown shape moving around as he looked for tender bark. He had already made little paths that he could hop along easily. Peter saw them almost as soon as they saw him.

"Hard times these," said Peter pleasantly. "I hope your stomachs are not as empty as mine." He pulled a strip of bark from a young tree and started to chew it. This was more than Reddy could stand. Watching Peter eat while his own stomach ached with emptiness was too much.

"I'm going in there and catch him, or scare him out where you can catch him, even if I tear my coat to pieces!" snarled Reddy.

Peter stopped chewing and sat up. "Come right along, Reddy. Come right along if you want to, but I would advise you to save your fur and your coat," he said.

Reddy's only reply was a snarl as he pushed his way under the branches. He cried out as they tore his coat and scratched his face, but he kept going. Now Peter's paths were very cleverly made. He had cut them through the very thickest of the briars, just big enough for himself and Mrs. Peter to hop along comfortably. But Reddy is so much bigger that he had to force his way through and in some places crawl flat on his stomach, which was very slow work and very painful because of the scratches from the briars. It was no trouble at all for Peter to stay out of his way, and before long Reddy gave up. Without a word, Granny Fox led the way to the Green Forest. They would try to find where Mrs. Grouse was sleeping under the snow. But though they hunted all night, they could not find her, because she had wisely gone to sleep in a spruce tree.

