

When old Granny Fox asked Reddy how he would like to eat Bowser the Hound's dinner, Reddy looked at her carefully to see if she was joking or really meant it. Granny looked so serious and so sure of herself that Reddy decided she couldn't be joking, even though it did sound that way.

"I certainly would like it, Granny. Yes, I certainly would," said he. "You — you don't suppose he would give it to us, do you?"

Granny chuckled. "No, Reddy," said she. "Bowser isn't that generous, especially not to Foxes. He isn't going to give us that dinner. We are going to take it from him. Yes, we are going to take it from him."

Reddy couldn't see how it would ever be possible to take a dinner from Bowser the Hound. That seemed almost as impossible as climbing or flying or diving. But he had great faith in Granny's cleverness. He remembered how she had almost caught Quacker the Duck. He knew that all the time he had been away trying to find something for them to eat, old Granny Fox had been doing more than just resting her tired old bones. He knew that not for one single minute had her sharp mind been idle. He knew that the whole time she had been thinking and thinking to find some way to get something to eat. So great was his faith in Granny just then that if she had told him she would get him a piece of the moon, he would have believed her.

"If you say we can take a dinner from Bowser the Hound, I suppose we can," said Reddy, "though I don't see how. But if we can, let's do it right away. I'm hungry enough to dare almost anything for something to eat. My stomach is so empty that the little bit of fish we shared seems to be rattling around in there, it's so lost. Oh, I could eat a million fish the size of that one! Have you thought about Farmer Brown's chickens, Granny?"

"Of course, Reddy! Of course! What a silly question!" replied Granny. "We may have to come to them yet."

"I wish I were at them right now," Reddy said with a sigh.

"But you know what I have told you," Granny went on. "The surest way to get into trouble is to steal chickens. I'm not feeling quite strong enough to be chased by Bowser the Hound just now, and if we went straight home after stealing chickens we would give away the secret of where we live, and we might be smoked out — and that would be the end of us. Besides, those chickens will be hard to get in this weather, because they will stay inside their house, and there is no way for us to get in there unless we walk right in, in broad daylight, and that would never do. It will be much better to take Bowser's dinner from him. First of all, if we are careful, no one except Bowser will know about it. As long as he is chained up, we have nothing to worry about from him. Also, we will enjoy getting even with him for the times he has ruined our chances of catching a fat chicken and for all the times he has hunted us. It is definitely better and safer to try for Bowser's dinner than to try for one of those chickens."

"Whatever you say, Granny, whatever you say," replied Reddy. "You know best. But how on earth we can do it, I cannot imagine."

"It is very simple," replied Granny, "very simple indeed. Most things are simple enough when you figure out how to do them. Neither of us could do it alone, but together we can do it without any risk at all. Listen."

Granny moved close to Reddy and whispered to him, although there was nobody within hearing distance. A slow smile spread across Reddy's face as he listened. When she had finished, he laughed out loud.

"Granny, you are amazing!" he said admiringly. "I never would have thought of that. Of course we can do it. Oh, won't Bowser be surprised! And how angry he'll be! Come on, let's go!"

"All right," said Granny, and the two of them started toward Farmer Brown's.

