

Reddy Fox ran all the way home from the Big River as fast as he could go. In his mouth he carried the fish he had found, from which he had taken just two bites. You remember he had had a battle with himself over that fish, and now he was running away from himself. That sounds funny, doesn't it? But it was true. Yes, Reddy Fox was running away from himself. He was afraid that if he didn't get home to old Granny Fox with that fish very soon, he would eat every last bit of it himself. So he was running as fast as he could to get there before that could happen. In a way, he was running away from his selfish self.

Old Granny Fox was on the doorstep watching for him, and he could see how her hungry old eyes lit up when she saw him and what he was carrying.

"I have brought you something to eat, Granny," he said, out of breath, as he put the fish at her feet. He was quite breathless from running. "It isn't much, but it is something. It is all I could find for you."

Granny looked at the fish and then she looked sharply at Reddy. Into those keen yellow eyes of hers came a soft, gentle look — the kind of look you would never have expected to see in them.

"What have you had to eat?" asked Granny softly.

Reddy turned his head so Granny couldn't see his face. "Oh, I've had something," he said, trying to sound casual. It was true — he had taken two bites from that fish.

Now you know just how sharp and smart and wise Granny Fox is. Reddy didn't fool her even a little bit. She took two small bites from the fish.

"Now," said she, "we'll share it." And she bit what remained into two pieces. In an instant she had swallowed the smaller piece, for she was very, very hungry. "That is your share," said she, as she pushed what remained over to Reddy.

Reddy tried to refuse it. "I brought it all for you," said he. "I know you did, Reddy," replied Granny, and it seemed to Reddy that he had never heard her voice sound so gentle. "You brought it to me when all you had eaten was the two little bites you had taken from it. You can't fool me, Reddy Fox. There wasn't even one good meal for either of us in that fish, but there was enough to give us both a little hope and keep us from starving. Now do as I say and eat your share." Granny said this last part very firmly.

Reddy looked at Granny, and then he quickly ate that small piece of fish without another word.

"That's better," said Granny. "We will both feel better. Now that I've something in my stomach, I feel two years younger. Before you came, I didn't feel as if I would ever be able to go hunting again. If you hadn't brought something, I — I'm afraid I couldn't have lasted much longer. By the next day, you probably wouldn't have had old Granny to think about. You may not know it, but I know that you saved my life, Reddy. I had reached a point where I just had to have a little food. You know there are times when a very small amount of food does more good than a lot of food could do later. This was one of those times."

Never in all his life had Reddy Fox felt so truly happy. He was still hungry — very, very hungry. But he gave it no thought. He had saved Granny Fox, good old Granny who had taught him everything he knew. And he knew that Granny knew how hard it had been for him to do it. Reddy was deeply happy with the great happiness that comes from having done something for someone else.

"It was nothing," he said quietly.

"It was a very great deal," replied Granny. Then she changed the subject. "How would you like to eat a dinner that belongs to Bowser the Hound?" she asked.

