

Old Granny Fox is a lively old lady for her age. If you don't believe it, just try to catch her. But lively as she is, she isn't as lively as she used to be. No, Granny Fox is not as lively as she used to be. The truth is, Granny is getting old. She would never admit it, and Reddy had never noticed it until the day after the great storm. They had hunted all night without finding anything and at daylight had gone home to rest before starting to hunt again. They had neither the strength nor the energy to search any longer. Pushing through deep snow is very hard work at the best of times, and very tiring. But when your stomach has been empty so long that you almost begin to wonder what food tastes like, it becomes even harder. You see, it is food that gives you strength, and without food you have no strength.

This is why Granny and Reddy Fox just had to rest. As hungry as they were, they had to stop for a while. Reddy threw himself down, and if there was ever a discouraged young Fox, he was it. "I wish I were dead," he groaned.

"Tut, tut, tut!" said Granny Fox sharply. "That is no way for a young Fox to talk! I am ashamed of you. I am indeed." Then she added more kindly: "I know exactly how you feel. Just try to forget your empty stomach and rest for a while. We have had a tiring, disappointing, discouraging night, but when you are rested, things will not look quite so bad. You know the old saying:

'Never a road so long is there
But it reaches a turn at last;
Never a cloud that gathers swift
But disappears as fast.'

You think you couldn't possibly feel any worse than you do right now, but you could. Many times I have had to go hungry longer than this. After we have rested a while, we will go over to the Old Pasture. Perhaps we will have better luck there."

So Reddy tried to forget the emptiness of his stomach and actually fell asleep, because he was very, very tired. When he woke up he felt better.

"Well, Granny," said he, "let's start for the Old Pasture. The snow has turned hard and icy, and walking won't be so difficult as it was last night."

Granny got up and followed Reddy out to the doorstep. She walked stiffly. The truth is, every one of her old bones ached. At least, that's how it felt to her. She looked toward the Old Pasture. It seemed very far away. She sighed with tiredness. "I don't think I'll go, Reddy," said she. "You go along and good luck to you."

Reddy turned and looked at Granny suspiciously. You know he has a very suspicious nature. Could it be that Granny had some secret plan to get a meal and wanted to get rid of him?

"What is wrong with you?" he asked roughly. "It was you who suggested going over to the Old Pasture."

Granny smiled. It was a sad sort of smile. She is wonderfully sharp and clever, is Granny Fox, and she knew what was in Reddy's mind as well as if he had told her.

"Old bones don't rest and recover as quickly as young bones, and I just don't feel strong enough to go over there now," said she. "The truth is, Reddy, I am getting old. I am going to stay here and rest. Perhaps then I'll feel able to go hunting tonight. You go on, and if you find more than enough for yourself, just remember old Granny and bring her a little."

There was something in the way Granny spoke that told Reddy she was telling the truth. It was the very first time she had ever admitted that she was getting old and could no longer do everything she once could. Never before had he noticed how gray she had become. Reddy felt a feeling of shame come over him — shame that he had suspected Granny of playing a trick. And right after that feeling of shame came a wonderful thought. He would go out and find food of some kind, and he would bring it straight back to Granny. She had taken care of him when he was small, and now he would repay Granny for everything she had done for him by taking care of her in her old age.

"Go back inside and lie down, Granny," he said kindly. "I am going to get something, and whatever it may be, you shall have your share." With that he trotted off toward the Old Pasture, and somehow the ache in his stomach didn't bother him as much as before.

