

Bowser the Hound loves to hunt just for the pleasure of the chase. It isn't so much that he wants to kill something — it is the pleasure of using his wonderful nose and the excitement of trying to catch someone, especially Granny or Reddy Fox. Farmer Brown's boy had put away his gun because he no longer wanted to hurt the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows. He wanted to make friends with them instead. Bowser had missed the exciting hunts he used to enjoy so much with Farmer Brown's boy. So Bowser had started sneaking away alone for a hunt every now and then. When Farmer Brown's boy found out, he got a chain and chained Bowser to his little house to stop him from running away and hunting secretly.

Of course, Bowser wasn't kept chained all the time. Not at all! When his owner was around and could keep an eye on Bowser, he would let him go free. But whenever he was going away and didn't want to take Bowser with him, he would chain him up. Now Bowser always had one good big meal a day. He might also get some scraps or a bone now and then, but once a day he got one good, big meal served to him in a large metal pan. If he was chained up, the meal was brought out to him. If not, it was given to him just outside the kitchen door.

Granny Fox knew all of this. She makes it her business to know about the lives of the people around her, because you never know when such knowledge might be useful. So Granny had watched Bowser the Hound when he and his owner had no idea she was anywhere near, and she had found out his habits, the usual time for his dinner, and exactly how far his chain would let him go. It was knowledge like this, stored away in that clever head of hers, that made her so sure she and Reddy could take Bowser's dinner from him. It was just about Bowser's dinnertime when Granny and Reddy trotted across the snow-covered fields and hid behind the barn until they could look around the corner. No one was in sight, not even Bowser, who was inside his warm little house at the end of the long shed behind Farmer Brown's house. Granny saw that he was chained and a sly smile crossed her face.

"You stay right here and watch until his dinner is brought out to him," she said to Reddy. "As soon as whoever brings it has gone back into the house, you walk right out where Bowser can see you. When he sees you, he'll forget all about his dinner. Sit down right where he can see you and stay there until you see that I have got that dinner, or until you hear someone coming — because you know Bowser will make a lot of noise. Then slip around behind the barn and meet me behind that shed."

So Reddy sat down to watch, and Granny left him. After a while Mrs. Brown came out of the house with a pan full of good things. She put it down in front of Bowser's little house and called to him. Then she turned and hurried back inside, because it was very cold. Bowser came out of his little house, yawned and stretched lazily.

It was time for Reddy to do his part. Out he walked and sat down right in front of Bowser and grinned at him. Bowser stared for a moment as if he couldn't believe his own eyes. Such nerve! Bowser growled. Then with a yelp he jumped toward Reddy.

Now the chain was long, but Reddy had been careful not to get too close, and of course Bowser couldn't reach him. He pulled with all his strength and yelped and barked like crazy, but Reddy just sat there and grinned in the most irritating way. It was great fun to tease Bowser like this.

Meanwhile, old Granny Fox had crept out from around the corner of the shed behind Bowser. Grabbing the edge of the pan with her teeth, she pulled it back with her around the corner and out of sight. If she made any noise, Bowser didn't hear it. He was making too much noise himself and was too excited. Soon Reddy heard the sound of a door opening. Mrs. Brown was coming out to see what all the noise was about. Like a flash Reddy ran behind the barn, and all Mrs. Brown saw was Bowser pulling at his chain as he whined and yelped excitedly.

"I guess he must have seen a stray cat or something," said Mrs. Brown and went back into the house. Bowser continued to whine and pull at his chain for a few minutes. Then he gave up and, growling deep in his throat, turned to eat his dinner. But there was no dinner! It had disappeared, pan and all! Bowser could not understand it at all.

Behind the shed, Granny and Reddy Fox licked that pan clean — licked it until it shone. Then, with small sighs of happiness, and every now and then a chuckle, they happily trotted home.

