

Reddy Fox is stubborn, and like most stubborn people, he tends to think his way is the best way just because it is his way. He is smart, is Reddy Fox. Yes, Reddy Fox is very, very smart. He has to be in order to survive. But a great deal of what he knows he learned from old Granny Fox. The very best tricks he knows, she taught him. She began teaching him when he was so small that he used to fall over his own feet. It was she who taught him how to hunt, that it is better never to steal chickens near home but to go far away for them, and how to fool Bowser the Hound.

It was Granny who taught Reddy how to use his little black nose to follow the tracks of careless young Rabbits, and how to catch Meadow Mice under the snow. In fact, there is little Reddy knows that he didn't learn from wise, clever old Granny Fox.

But as he grew bigger and bigger, until he was just as big as Granny herself, he forgot what he owed her. He developed a very high opinion of himself and felt that he knew just about everything there was to know. So sometimes when he had done foolish or careless things and Granny had scolded him, telling him he was big enough and old enough to know better, he would sulk and go off muttering to himself. But he never quite dared to be openly rude to Granny, and this, of course, was as it should be.

"If only I could catch Granny doing something foolish or careless," he would say to himself. But he never could, and he had started to think he never would. But now at last Granny — clever old Granny Fox — had been careless! She had allowed Farmer Brown's boy to catch her napping! Reddy really wished he had been there to see it himself. But anyway, he had been told about it, and he made up his mind that the next time Granny said anything sharp to him about his carelessness, he would have something to say back. Yes, Reddy Fox was deliberately planning to answer back, which, as you know, is always disrespectful to one's elders.

At last the chance came. Reddy did something that no truly wise Fox would ever do. He went to the same chicken house two nights in a row, and the second night he barely escaped being shot. Old Granny Fox found out about it. How she found out, Reddy doesn't know to this day, but find out she did, and she gave him such a scolding as even her sharp tongue had rarely given.

"You are the stupidest Fox I have ever known," scolded Granny.

"I am no more stupid than you are!" replied Reddy in a very rude way.

"What's that?" demanded Granny. "What did you say?"

"I said I am no more stupid than you are, and what is more, I hope I am not as stupid. I know better than to take a nap in broad daylight right under the very nose of Farmer Brown's boy." Reddy grinned in the most rude way as he said this.

Granny's eyes flashed. Then things happened. Reddy was hit this way and hit that way and hit the other way until it seemed to him that the air was full of black paws, every one of which landed on his head or face and stung him, making him whimper and put his tail between his legs, and finally howl.

"There!" cried Granny, when at last she had to stop because she was completely out of breath. "Perhaps that will teach you to be respectful to your elders. I was careless and stupid, and I am perfectly willing to admit it, because it taught me a lesson. Wisdom is often gained through mistakes, but never when you are not willing to admit the mistakes. No Fox lives long who makes the same mistake twice. And those who are rude to their elders come to a bad end. I have a fat goose hidden away for dinner, but you will get none of it."

"I — I wish I had never heard about Granny's mistake," Reddy whined to himself as he went to bed without dinner.

"You should wish that you hadn't been rude," whispered a small voice inside him.

