

We all know that, yet most of us are just foolish enough to make such a wish now and then. I think you have done it. I know I have. Peter Rabbit has done it often and then laughed at himself afterwards. I suspect that even shrewd, clever old Granny Fox has been guilty of it more than once. So it is not surprising that Reddy Fox, terribly hungry as he was, should do a little foolish wishing.

When he left home to go to the Old Pasture, hoping to find something to eat there, he started off bravely. It was cold, very cold, but his fur coat kept him warm as long as he was moving. The Green Meadows sparkled white with snow. All the world — at least that part of it Reddy knew — was white. It was beautiful, very beautiful, with millions of sparkles flashing in the sun. But Reddy had no thought for beauty. The only thing in his mind was to find something to fill the empty stomachs of himself and Granny Fox.

The snow had hardened so that Reddy no longer had to push through it. He could run on top of the crust without breaking through. This made things much easier, so he trotted along quickly. He had planned to go straight to the Old Pasture, but suddenly he remembered the shelter down in a far corner of the Old Orchard that Farmer Brown's boy had built for Bob White. Probably the Bob White family were there now, and he might surprise them. He would go there first.

Reddy stopped and looked carefully to make sure that Farmer Brown's boy and Bowser the Hound were nowhere in sight. Then he ran quickly toward the Old Orchard. Just as he entered it, he heard a cheerful voice just above his head: "Dee, dee, dee, dee!" Reddy stopped and looked up. There was Tommy Tit the Chickadee holding tightly to a big piece of fresh animal fat tied to a branch of a tree, and Tommy was eating happily. Reddy sat down right below that fat and looked up with longing. The sight of it made his mouth water so much that it was almost more than he could bear. He jumped once. He jumped twice. He jumped three times. But all his jumping was useless. That fat was beyond his reach. There was no way to reach it except by flying or climbing. Reddy's tongue hung out of his mouth with longing.

"I wish I could climb," said Reddy.

But he couldn't climb, and all the wishing in the world wouldn't let him do so, as he very well knew. So after a while he moved on. As he came near the far corner of the Old Orchard, he saw Bob White and Mrs. Bob and all the young Bobs picking up grain that Farmer Brown's boy had scattered for them just in front of the shelter he had built. Reddy crouched down and very slowly, an inch at a time, he crept forward, his eyes shining with eagerness. Just as he was almost close enough to jump, Bob White gave a signal, and away flew the Bob Whites to the safety of a hemlock tree on the edge of the Green Forest.

Tears of anger and disappointment came to Reddy's eyes. "I wish I could fly," he muttered, as he watched the brown birds disappear into the big hemlock tree.

This was just as foolish a wish as the first one, so Reddy trotted on and decided to go down past the Smiling Pool. When he got there, he found it frozen over, as he expected. But just where the Laughing Brook joins it, there was a small area of open water. Billy Mink was on the ice at its edge, and just as Reddy arrived, Billy dived in. A minute later he climbed out with a fish in his mouth.

"Give me a bite," begged Reddy.

"Catch your own fish," replied Billy Mink. "I have to work hard enough for what I get as it is."

Reddy was afraid to go out on the ice where Billy was, and so he sat and watched him eat that fine fish. Then Billy dived into the water again and disappeared. Reddy waited a long time, but Billy did not come back. "I wish I could dive," Reddy said, thinking of the fine fish somewhere under the ice.

And this wish was just as foolish as the others.

