

Never in all his life had Reddy Fox enjoyed a dinner more than the one he and Granny had stolen from Bowser the Hound. Of course it would have tasted wonderful anyway, because they were so terribly hungry. But to Reddy it tasted even better because it had been meant for Bowser. Bowser has hunted Reddy so many times that Reddy has no love for him at all, and it made Reddy so happy he could hardly stand it to think that they had taken his dinner from almost right under his nose.

With that good dinner in their stomachs, Reddy and Granny Fox felt so much better that the world no longer seemed such a cold and cruel place. It is funny how differently things look when your stomach is full compared to when it is empty. Best of all, they knew they could use the same clever trick again and steal another dinner from Bowser if they needed to. It is a very comforting feeling — a very comforting feeling indeed — to know for certain where your next meal is coming from. It is a feeling that Granny and Reddy Fox and many other little people of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest rarely have in winter. As a rule, when they have finished one meal, they have no idea at all where the next one will come from. How would you like to live that way?

The very next day Granny and Reddy went up to Farmer Brown's at Bowser's dinnertime. But this time Farmer Brown's boy was working near the barn, and Bowser was not chained. Granny and Reddy slipped away as quietly as they had come. The day after that, they found Bowser chained and stole another dinner from him. Then they went away laughing until their sides hurt as they heard Bowser's whines of surprise and disappointment when he discovered that his dinner had vanished. They could tell from the sound of his voice that he had no idea at all what had happened to that dinner.

Now there was someone else out on the snow-covered meadows and through the Green Forest and the Old Pasture these days, with a stomach so thin and empty that he could think of nothing else. It was Old Man Coyote. You know he is very clever, and he managed to find enough food of one kind or another to keep himself alive, but never enough to give him that comfortable feeling of a full stomach. While he wasn't actually starving, he was always hungry. So he spent all his waking time hunting for something to eat.

Of course he often ran across the tracks of Granny and Reddy Fox, and sometimes he would meet them. It struck Old Man Coyote that they didn't look as thin as he was. That made him think. Neither of them was a better hunter than he. In fact, he was proud of being smarter than either of them. Yet when he met them, they seemed to be in very good spirits and not at all worried about the lack of food. Why? There had to be a reason. They must be getting food somewhere that he didn't know about.

"I'll just keep an eye on them," muttered Old Man Coyote.

So very quietly and cleverly, Old Man Coyote followed Granny and Reddy Fox, taking great care that they should not suspect what he was doing. All one night he followed them through the Green Forest and over the Green Meadows. When at last he saw them go home, looking perfectly calm even though they had caught nothing, he trotted off to his own home to do more thinking.

"They are getting food somewhere, that is certain," he muttered, scratching first one ear and then the other. Somehow he could think better when he was scratching his ears. "If they don't get it at night, and they certainly didn't get anything this night, they must get it in the daytime. I have done quite a bit of hunting myself in the daytime, and I haven't once met them in the Green Forest or seen them on the Green Meadows or up in the Old Pasture. I wonder if they are stealing Farmer Brown's chickens and haven't been caught yet. I have stayed away from there myself, but if they can steal chickens and not be caught, I certainly can. There never was a Fox smart enough to do something that a Coyote cannot do if he tries. I think I'll go where I can watch Farmer Brown's place and see what is happening up there. Yes, that's what I'll do."

With that, Old Man Coyote smiled and then curled up for a short nap, because he was tired.

