

Snow covered the Green Meadows and the Green Forest. Ice covered the Smiling Pool and the Laughing Brook. Reddy and Granny Fox were hungry most of the time. It was not easy to find food these days, so they spent almost every waking moment looking for something to eat. Sometimes they hunted together, but usually one went one way and the other went a different way so they had a better chance of finding something. If one of them found enough food for two, that one carried it home if possible. If it was too big to carry, the other was told where to find it.

For several days they had had very little to eat, and they were so hungry that they were ready to take almost any risk to get a good meal. For two nights they had visited Farmer Brown's chicken house, hoping to find a way inside. But the chickens were locked up safely, and no matter how hard they tried, they could not find a way in.

"It is no use," said Granny as they walked home after the second try. "We cannot hope to get one of those chickens at night. If we want to get any at all, we will have to do it in broad daylight. It can be done — I have done it before — but I don't like the idea. We might be seen, and that means Bowser the Hound will be sent to hunt us."

"So what?" said Reddy. "It's easy enough to trick him."

"You think so, do you?" said Granny sharply. "I have never seen a young Fox who didn't think he knew everything, and you are just the same. When you have lived as long as I have, you will learn not to be so sure of yourself. I agree that when there is no snow on the ground, any Fox with a little sense can trick Bowser. But with snow everywhere, it is very different. If Bowser decides to follow your tracks these days, you will have to be much smarter than I think you are to fool him. The only way to escape him will be to go underground, and if you do that you will give away a secret — they will know where we live and never leave us in peace. Farmer Brown's boy might decide to smoke us out. I have seen it happen. No. We are not going to try for those chickens in the daytime unless we are truly starving."

"I am starving now," Reddy whined.

"No such thing!" Granny snapped. "I have gone without food longer than this many times. Have you been to the Big River recently?"

"No," replied Reddy. "What's the point? It's frozen over. There's nothing there."

"Maybe not," replied Granny, "but I learned long ago that it is a bad idea to ignore any chance. There is a place in the Big River that never freezes because the water moves too fast to freeze. I have found more than one meal washed up on the shore there. You go there now while I see what I can find in the Green Forest. If neither of us finds anything, then we can think about Farmer Brown's chickens tomorrow."

Reddy obeyed, even though he didn't want to. "It's completely useless," he grumbled as he trotted toward the Big River. "There won't be anything there. It's just a waste of time."

Late that afternoon he came hurrying back, and Granny could tell by the way he held his ears and tail that he had some news. "Well, what is it?" she asked.

"I found a dead fish that had washed ashore," replied Reddy. "It wasn't big enough for two, so I ate it."

"Anything else?" asked Granny.

"No-o," replied Reddy slowly. "Well, nothing useful anyway. Quacker the Wild Duck was swimming in the open water, but he never once came to shore even though I watched and watched."

"Ha!" said Granny. "That is good news. I think we'll go duck hunting."

