

Jolly, round, bright Mr. Sun had just started his daily climb up into the blue, blue sky that morning when he spotted two figures trotting across the snow-covered Green Meadows, one behind the other. They were moving with purpose, as if they knew exactly where they were going. They did. They were Granny and Reddy Fox, and they were heading to the Big River, to the place where the water moved too fast to freeze. The day before, Reddy had seen Quacker the Wild Duck swimming there, and now they were on their way to try to catch him.

Granny led the way and Reddy followed quietly behind her. To be honest, Reddy didn't believe they had any chance of catching Quacker, because Quacker stayed out in the water where he was completely safe from them. The only reason Reddy had agreed to come was the hope that he might find another dead fish washed up on shore, as he had the day before.

"Granny is certainly getting foolish in her old age," Reddy thought as he trotted along behind her. "I told her that Quacker never once came to shore all the time I watched yesterday. I don't think he ever comes to shore. And if she knows anything, she should know that she cannot catch him out there in the water. Granny used to be smart enough when she was young, I suppose, but she is clearly losing her mind now. It's a shame, a great shame. I can already imagine how Quacker will laugh at her. I want to laugh myself."

He did laugh, but he was very careful that Granny did not see him. Whenever she looked back, he looked completely serious. In fact, he appeared to be just as eager as if he truly believed they would catch Quacker. Now, old Granny Fox knows the world very well, and if Reddy could have known what was going on in her mind as she led the way to the Big River, he might not have felt so sure of himself. Granny was doing some quiet laughing of her own.

"He thinks I am old and foolish and don't know what I'm doing, the young rascal!" she thought. "He thinks he has learned everything there is to learn. It is completely useless to try to tell him anything. When young people feel that way, talking to them is a waste of time. He has to be shown. There is nothing like experience to take the pride out of these young ones."

Now, pride is the feeling that you know more than anyone else. Perhaps you do. Then again, perhaps you don't. So sometimes it is best not to be too sure of your own opinion. Reddy was sure. He trotted along behind old Granny Fox and planned clever things to say to her when she discovered there was no way to catch Quacker the Duck. I am afraid, very much afraid, that Reddy was planning to be rude. People who think they are very smart are quite likely to be rude.

Soon they reached the bank of the Big River. Old Granny Fox told Reddy to stay still while she crept behind some bushes where she could look out over the Big River. He grinned as he watched her. He was still grinning when she came quietly back. He expected to see a look of disappointment on her face. Instead, she looked very pleased.

"Quacker is there," she said, "and I think he will make us a very good dinner. Creep up behind those bushes and look for yourself, then come back here and tell me what you think we should do to catch him."

So Reddy crept up behind the bushes, and this time it was Granny who grinned as she watched him. As he crept forward, Reddy wondered if perhaps Quacker had come to shore after all. Granny seemed so sure they could catch him that this had to be the case. But when he looked through the bushes, there was Quacker, far out in the middle of the open water, exactly where he had been the day before.

