

It all depends on how you look at things. Of course, Granny and Reddy Fox had no business being in Farmer Brown's chicken house in the middle of the night, or at any other time, for that matter. That is, they had no business being there from Farmer Brown's point of view. He would have called them two red thieves. Perhaps that is exactly what they were. But looking at it from their point of view, I am not so sure. To Granny and Reddy Fox, those chickens were simply large, rather stupid birds, wonderful to eat if they could be caught, and bound to be eaten by somebody. The fact that they were in Farmer Brown's chicken house didn't make them his any more than the fact that Mrs. Grouse was in a part of the Green Forest owned by Farmer Brown made her his.

You see, among the small meadow and forest animals, there is no such thing as ownership, except when it comes to storage places. And because these chickens were alive, it didn't occur to Granny and Reddy that the chicken house was a kind of storage place. It would have made no difference if it had. Among the little animals, it is considered quite acceptable to help yourself from another's storage place if you are clever enough to find it and truly need the food.

Besides, Reddy and Granny knew that Farmer Brown and his boy would eat some of those chickens themselves, and they didn't need them nearly as much as Reddy and Granny did. So, from their point of view, there was nothing wrong with being in that chicken house in the middle of the night. They were there simply because they needed food very badly, and food was there.

They looked up at the shelves where the chickens were sleeping close together, fast asleep. The shelves were too high to reach from the floor, even when Reddy and Granny stood on their back legs and stretched as far as they could.

"We have to wake them up and scare them so that some of the silly things will fly down where we can catch them," said Reddy, licking his lips hungrily.

"That won't do at all!" snapped Granny. "They would make a terrible noise and wake up Bowser the Hound, and he would wake up his owner, and that is exactly what we must not do if we ever hope to get in here again. I thought you had more sense, Reddy."

Reddy looked a little embarrassed. "Well, if we don't do that, how are we going to get them? We can't fly," he grumbled.

"You stay right where you are," snapped Granny, "and make sure you don't make a single sound."

Then Granny jumped lightly up to a small shelf that ran along in front of the nesting boxes. From there she could reach the lower perch where four fat chickens were sleeping. Very gently she pushed her head between two of them and pushed them apart. Half asleep, they complained and moved along a little. Granny kept pushing. At last one of them stretched out her head to see who was doing the pushing. Like a flash Granny grabbed that head, and the chicken never knew what had woken her, and she had no chance to wake the others.

Dropping this chicken at Reddy's feet, Granny pushed another until it did the same thing, and the same thing happened again. Then Granny jumped lightly down, picked up one of the chickens by the neck, threw the body over her shoulder, and told Reddy to do the same with the other and head for home.

"Aren't you going to get more while we have the chance?" grumbled Reddy.

"Enough is enough," replied Granny. "We have a dinner for two, and so far no one is any the wiser. Perhaps these two won't even be missed, and we'll have a chance to get more another night. Now come on."

This was plain common sense, and Reddy knew it, so without another word he followed old Granny Fox out the way they had come in, and then home to the best dinner he had had in a very, very long time.


