

Farmer Brown's boy is not usually the forgetful type. He is pretty good about remembering things. But Farmer Brown's boy is not perfect by any means. He does forget sometimes, and he is careless sometimes. He would be a very strange sort of boy if he weren't. But day in and day out, he is pretty thoughtful and careful.

Taking care of the chickens is one of Farmer Brown's boy's jobs. It is one of those jobs that most of the time is a pleasure. He likes the chickens, and he likes taking care of them. Every morning one of the first things he does is feed them and open the chicken house so they can go into the yard if they want to. Every night he goes out just before dark, collects the eggs, and locks the chicken house so nothing can harm the chickens while they sleep on their perches. After the big snowstorm, he had cleared a space in the chicken yard where the chickens could come out and get exercise and enjoy the sun when they wanted to, and in the warmest part of the day they would do this. During the day he always made sure the chicken yard gate was closed, because nobody knew better than he how bold Granny and Reddy Fox can be when they are very hungry. And in winter they are very likely to be very hungry most of the time. So he didn't want to give them a chance to sneak into that chicken yard while the chickens were out, or to let the chickens stray outside where they might be even more easily caught.

But at night he sometimes left that gate open, as Granny Fox had found out. You see, he thought it didn't matter, because the chickens were locked in their warm house and were safe anyway.

It was just getting dark on the afternoon of the day when Granny and Reddy Fox had talked over their plan to get one of those fat chickens, when Farmer Brown's boy collected the eggs and checked that the chickens had gone to sleep for the night. He had just started to close the small sliding door over the hole through which the chickens went in and out during the day, when Bowser the Hound began to make a lot of noise, as if terribly excited about something.

Farmer Brown's boy gave the small sliding door a quick push, picked up his basket of eggs, locked the chicken house door, and hurried out through the gate without stopping to close it. You see, he was in a hurry to find out what Bowser was making such a fuss about. Bowser was yelping and whining and pulling at his chain, and it was clear to see that he desperately wanted to be set free.

"What is it, Bowser, old boy? Did you see something?" asked Farmer Brown's boy, patting Bowser on the head. "I can't let you go, you know, because you would probably go off hunting all night and come home in the morning all tired out with sore feet. Whatever it was, I think you've scared it out of a year's growth, old fellow, so let's leave it at that."

Bowser still pulled at his chain and whined, but after a while he calmed down. His owner looked around behind the barn to see if he could spot what had stirred up Bowser so much, but nothing was to be seen. He went back, patted Bowser once more, and went into the house, without ever giving that open chicken yard gate another thought.

Half an hour later, old Granny Fox joined Reddy Fox, who was waiting on the doorstep of their home. "It is all set, Reddy — that gate is open," said she.

"How did you do it, Granny?" asked Reddy eagerly.

"Easily enough," replied Granny. "I let Bowser catch a glimpse of me just as his owner was locking up the chicken house. Bowser made a big fuss, and of course Farmer Brown's boy hurried out to see what was happening. He was in too much of a hurry to close that gate, and afterwards he forgot all about it or else thought it didn't matter. Of course, I didn't let him catch even a glimpse of me."

"Of course," said Reddy.

