

If there were ever two people furiously angry, those two were Granny and Reddy Fox as they watched Old Man Coyote gobble up the dinner they had so cleverly stolen from Bowser the Hound. It was bad enough to lose the dinner, but it was even worse to see someone else eat it after all their hard work. "Robber!" snarled Granny. Old Man Coyote stopped eating long enough to smile.

"Thief! Sneak! Coward!" snarled Reddy. Once more Old Man Coyote smiled. When that dinner had disappeared down his throat to the very last crumb, he licked his lips and turned to Granny and Reddy.

"I am very grateful for that dinner," he said pleasantly, his eyes shining with mischief. "It was the best dinner I have had for a long time. Allow me to say that that trick of yours was as clever as any I have ever seen. It was quite worthy of a Coyote. You are a very clever old lady, Granny Fox. Now I hear someone coming, and I think it would be better for everyone if we were not seen here."

He dashed off behind the barn like a gray flash, and Granny and Reddy followed, because someone really was coming. You see, Bowser the Hound had noticed that something was happening around the corner of the shed, and he made such a noise that Mrs. Brown had come out of the house to see what was going on. By the time she got around there, all she saw was the empty pan that had held Bowser's dinner. She was puzzled. She couldn't understand how that pan had gotten there, and Bowser couldn't tell her, even though he tried his very best. She had been puzzled about that pan two or three times before.

Old Man Coyote didn't waste any time getting back home, because he never felt comfortable near a human's house in broad daylight. Granny and Reddy Fox went home too, and there was hate in their hearts — hate for Old Man Coyote. But once they reached home, old Granny Fox stopped growling, and soon she began to chuckle.

"What are you laughing about?" demanded Reddy.

"At the way Old Man Coyote stole that dinner from us," replied Granny.

"I hate him! He's a sneaky robber!" snapped Reddy.

"Tut, tut, Reddy! Tut, tut!" replied Granny. "Be fair. We stole that dinner from Bowser the Hound, and Old Man Coyote stole it from us. I suppose he is no worse than we are, when you think about it. Is he?"

"I — I — well, I don't suppose he is, when you put it that way," Reddy admitted, unwillingly.

"And he was smart — very smart — to beat two such clever people as we are," continued Granny. "You have to agree with that."

"Y-e-s," said Reddy slowly. "He was smart enough, but —"

"There is no but, Reddy," interrupted Granny. "You know the law of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest. It is everybody for himself, and anything belongs to the one who is clever enough or strong enough to take it. We were clever enough to take that dinner from Bowser the Hound, and Old Man Coyote was clever enough to take it from us, and strong enough to keep it. It was all fair, and you know there is no point crying over spilled milk, as the saying goes. We simply have to be clever enough not to let him fool us again. I think we won't be getting any more of Bowser's dinners for a while. We have to think of another way to fill our stomachs when hunting is poor. I think if I could have just one of those fat chickens of Farmer Brown's, it would put new strength in my old bones. All summer I warned you to stay away from that chicken yard, but the time has come now when I think we might try for a couple of those chickens."

Reddy's ears stood up at the mention of fat chickens. "I think so too," said he. "When shall we try for one?"

"Tomorrow morning," replied Granny. "Now don't bother me while I think out a plan."

