

Prickly Porky the Porcupine was enjoying himself. There was no doubt about that. He was lying across the doorway of that old house — the very house where old Granny Fox had been born. When he had lain down on the doorstep for a nap and sunbath, he had thought the old house was still empty. Then he had fallen asleep, only to be woken by Reddy Fox, who had been sleeping inside the house and couldn't get out because Prickly Porky was in the way.

Now Prickly Porky does not like Reddy Fox, and the more Reddy begged and scolded and called him names, the more Prickly Porky laughed. It was such a good joke to think that he had trapped Reddy Fox, and he made up his mind to keep Reddy in there for a long time, just to tease him and make him uncomfortable. You see, Prickly Porky remembered how often Reddy Fox played mean tricks on the small, weak meadow and forest animals.

"It will do him good. It certainly will do him good," said Prickly Porky, and shook the thousand little spines hidden in his long coat, because he knew that even the sound of them would make Reddy Fox shiver with fear.

Suddenly Prickly Porky pricked up his funny little short ears. He heard the deep voice of Bowser the Hound, and it was getting closer and closer. Prickly Porky laughed again.

"I think Mr. Bowser is going to have a surprise," said Prickly Porky, as he made all thousand little spines stand out from his long coat until he looked like a funny, large chestnut shell with spikes.

Bowser the Hound did have a surprise. He was hunting Reddy Fox and almost ran straight into Prickly Porky before he saw him. The very sight of those thousand little spines sent cold shivers all the way down Bowser's back to the tip of his tail, because he remembered how he had once gotten some of them stuck in his lips and mouth, and how much it had hurt to have them pulled out. Ever since then he had had the greatest respect for Prickly Porky.

"Wow!" yelped Bowser the Hound, stopping suddenly. "I beg your pardon, Prickly Porky, I beg your pardon. I didn't know you were taking a nap here."

The whole time, Bowser the Hound was backing away as fast as he could. Then he turned around, put his tail between his legs, and actually ran away.

Slowly Prickly Porky uncurled himself, and his little eyes shone as he watched Bowser the Hound run away.

"Bowser's very big and strong;
His voice is deep; his legs are long;
His bark scares some almost to death.
But as for me he wastes his breath;
I just roll up and shake my spears
And Bowser is the one who fears."

So said Prickly Porky, and laughed out loud. Just then he heard a light footstep and turned to see who was coming. It was old Granny Fox. She had seen Bowser run away, and now she was worried about whether Reddy Fox was safe.

"Good morning," said Granny Fox, being careful not to come too close.

"Good morning," replied Prickly Porky, hiding a smile.

"I am very tired and would like to go inside my house. Would you mind moving?" asked Granny Fox.

"Oh!" said Prickly Porky. "Is this your house? I thought you lived over on the Green Meadows."

"I did, but I have moved. Please let me in," replied Granny Fox.

"Of course, of course. Don't mind me, Granny Fox. Step right over me," said Prickly Porky, and smiled again, at the same time shaking his little spines.

Instead of stepping over him, Granny Fox backed away.

