

Granny Fox knows this well. Nobody knows it better. Everything she does is first carefully planned in her clever head. So now, after she had decided that she and Reddy would try for one of Farmer Brown's fat chickens, she lay down to think out a plan. Nobody knew better than she how foolish it would be to go over to that chicken yard and just hope for a lucky chance to catch one of those chickens. Of course, they might be lucky and get a chicken that way, but then again they might be unlucky and get into serious trouble.

"You see," said she to Reddy, "we must not only plan how to get that fat chicken, but we must also plan how to get away safely. If only there was some way to get into that chicken house at night, there would be no trouble at all. I don't suppose there is the smallest chance of that."

"Not the smallest chance," replied Reddy. "There isn't a hole anywhere big enough even for Shadow the Weasel to get through, and Farmer Brown's boy is very careful to lock the door every night."

"There's a little hole that the chickens go in and out through during the day, which I think is big enough for one of us to slip through," said Granny thoughtfully.

"Sure! But it's always closed at night," snapped Reddy. "Besides, to get to that hole or the door, you have to get inside the chicken yard, and there's a gate you can't open."

"People are sometimes careless — even you, Reddy," said Granny.

Reddy felt uncomfortable, because he had gotten into trouble many times through carelessness. "Well, what about it?" he asked, slightly crossly.

"Nothing much, only if that chicken yard gate happened to be left open, and if Farmer Brown's boy happened to forget to close that little hole that the chickens go through, and if we happened to be around at just that time —"

"Too many ifs to get a dinner with," interrupted Reddy.

"Perhaps," replied Granny calmly, "but I've noticed that it is the one who keeps an eye open for all the little ifs in life who does the best. Now I have kept an eye on that chicken yard, and I've noticed that very often Farmer Brown's boy doesn't close the chicken yard gate at night. I suppose he thinks that if the chicken house door is locked, the gate doesn't matter. Anyone who is careless about one thing is likely to be careless about another. Someday he may forget to close that hole. I told you that we would try for one of those chickens tomorrow morning, but the more I think about it, the more I think it will be wiser to visit that chicken house a few nights first before we risk trying to catch a chicken in broad daylight. In fact, I am quite sure I can make Farmer Brown's boy forget to close that gate."

"How?" demanded Reddy eagerly.

Granny smiled. "I'll try it first and tell you afterwards," said she. "I believe Farmer Brown's boy closes the chicken house just before jolly, round, red Mr. Sun goes to bed behind the Purple Hills, doesn't he?"

Reddy nodded. Many times from a safe hiding place he had watched hungrily as Farmer Brown's boy shut the chickens in for the night. It was always just before the dark shadows began to creep out from their hiding places.

"I thought so," said Granny. The truth is, she already knew it perfectly well. There was nothing about that chicken house and what went on there that Granny didn't know as well as Reddy. "You stay right here this afternoon until I return. I'll see what I can do."

"Let me come along," begged Reddy.

"No," replied Granny in such a firm tone that Reddy knew it would be no use to beg. "Sometimes two can do what one cannot do alone, and sometimes one can do what two might ruin. Now we may as well take a nap until it is time for Mr. Sun to go to bed. Just leave it to your old Granny to take care of the first of those ifs. For the other one, we'll have to trust to luck. But you know we are lucky sometimes."

With this, Granny curled up for a nap, and having nothing better to do, Reddy did the same.

