

Now there is nothing like being shut inside alone in the dark to make a person think. A voice inside Reddy started to speak to him. "If you hadn't tried to be clever and show off, you wouldn't have brought all this trouble on yourself and old Granny Fox," said the voice.

"I know it," replied Reddy out loud, forgetting that it was only a small voice inside him.

"What do you know?" asked Prickly Porky. He was still keeping Reddy inside and Granny outside, and he had heard what Reddy said.

"It is none of your business!" snapped Reddy.

Reddy could hear Prickly Porky chuckle. Then Prickly Porky repeated, as if talking to himself, in a strange cracked voice:

"Rudeness never, never pays,
Nor is there gain in saucy ways.
It's always best to be polite
And ne'er give way to ugly spite.
If that's the way you feel inside
You'd better all such feelings hide;
For he must smile who hopes to win,
And he who loses best will grin."

Reddy pretended he hadn't heard. Prickly Porky continued to chuckle for a while, and finally Reddy fell asleep. When he woke up, he found that Prickly Porky had gone and old Granny Fox had brought him something to eat.

As soon as Reddy Fox was able to travel, he and Granny moved to the Old Pasture. The Old Pasture is very different from the Green Meadows or the Green Forest. Yes, it is very, very different. Reddy Fox thought so. And Reddy didn't like the change — not at all. All around were large rocks, and growing around and over them were bushes and young trees and thorny plants with long, sharp thorns, and blackberry and raspberry bushes that seemed to have a million little hooks, reaching out to catch and tear his red coat and scratch his face and hands. There were small open areas where wild-eyed young cattle grazed on the short grass. They had made many small paths that crossed back and forth through the bushes, and when you tried to follow one of these paths you never knew where you would come out.

No, Reddy Fox did not like the Old Pasture at all. There was no long, soft green grass to lie down in. And it was lonely up there. He missed the small animals of the Green Meadows and the Green Forest. There was no one to push around and tease. And it was such a long, long way from Farmer Brown's chicken yard that old Granny Fox wouldn't even try to bring him a fat chicken. At least, that's what she told Reddy.

The truth is, wise old Granny Fox knew that the very best thing she could do was to stay away from Farmer Brown's for a long time. She knew that Reddy couldn't go down there because he was still too lame and sore to travel that far. She hoped that by the time Reddy was well enough to go, he would have learned better than to do something as foolish as trying to show off by stealing a chicken in broad daylight, which is what had brought all this trouble on them.

Down on the Green Meadows, the home of Granny and Reddy Fox had been on a small hill, right where they could sit on their doorstep and look out over all the Green Meadows. It had been very, very beautiful down there. They had made lovely small paths through the tall green meadow grass, and the flowers had grown right up to their doorstep. But up here in the Old Pasture, Granny Fox had chosen the thickest group of bushes and young trees she could find. In the middle was a large pile of rocks. Deep in among these rocks, Granny Fox had dug their new home. It was right down under the rocks. Even in the middle of the day, the sun could hardly reach it with a few of its long, bright beams. The rest of the time it was dark and gloomy there.

No, Reddy Fox didn't like his new home at all, but when he said so, old Granny Fox hit him on the ears.

"It is your own fault that we have to live here now," said she. "It is the only place where we are safe. Farmer Brown's boy will never find this home, and even if he did he couldn't dig into it the way he dug into our old home on the Green Meadows. Here we are, and here we have to stay — all because a foolish little Fox thought he was smarter than anybody else and tried to show off."

Reddy hung his head. "I don't care!" he said, which was very, very foolish of him, because, as you know, he cared a very great deal.

And here we will leave wise old Granny Fox and Reddy, safe, even if they don't like their new home. You see, Lightfoot the Deer is getting jealous. He thinks there should be some books about the people of the Green Forest, and that the first one should be about him. And because we all love Lightfoot the Deer, the very next book will carry his name.
