

Granny Fox had hoped that those two chickens she and Reddy had stolen from Farmer Brown's chicken house would not be noticed, but they were. They were noticed the very first thing the next morning when Farmer Brown's boy went to feed the chickens. He discovered right away that the small sliding door over the opening where the chickens went in and out was open, and then he remembered that he had left the chicken yard gate open the night before. Carefully Farmer Brown's boy looked closely at the hole with the sliding door.

"Ha!" he said after a moment, and held up two red hairs that he had found on the edge of the door. "Ha! I thought as much. I was careless last night and didn't lock this door, and I left the gate open. Reddy Fox has been here, and now I know what happened to those two chickens. I suppose it serves me right for being careless, and I suppose if the truth were known, those chickens were of more real use to him than they ever could have been to me, because the poor creature must be having a very hard time finding food in these cold winter days. Still, I can't let him keep stealing. That would never do. If I lock them up every night and am not careless, he can't get them. But accidents happen, and I might do just as I did last night — think I had locked up when I hadn't. I don't like setting a trap for Reddy, but I must teach the rascal a lesson. If I don't, he will get so bold that those chickens won't be safe even in the daytime."

Now at that very same time, back at their home, Granny and Reddy Fox were talking over their plans for the future. Shrewd old Granny was explaining to Reddy why it was necessary to stay away from that chicken yard for some time. "We've had a good dinner, a wonderful dinner, and if we are clever enough we may be able to get more good dinners from the same place," said she. "But we certainly won't if we are too greedy."

"But I don't think Farmer Brown's boy has even missed those two chickens, and I don't see any reason at all why we shouldn't go back tonight and get two more if he is silly enough to leave that gate and little door open," whined Reddy.

"Maybe he hasn't missed those two, but if we should take two more he would certainly notice, and he would guess what had happened, and that could get us into endless trouble," snapped Granny. "We are not starving now, and the best thing for us to do is to stay away from that chicken house until we can't find food anywhere else. Now mind what I tell you, Reddy, and don't you dare go near there."

Reddy promised, and so it happened that Farmer Brown's boy set up a trap for nothing, as far as Reddy and Granny were concerned. Very carefully he wrapped strips of cloth around the jaws of the trap, because he couldn't bear to think of those hard jaws cutting into Reddy's leg if he happened to be caught. You see, Farmer Brown's boy didn't plan to kill Reddy if he caught him, but to hold him prisoner for a while and keep him out of trouble. That night he hid the trap very cleverly just inside the chicken house where anyone creeping in through that small hole would be sure to step in it. Then he deliberately left the small sliding door partly open, as if it had been forgotten, and he also left the chicken yard gate open, just as he had done the night before.

"There now, Master Reddy," said he, talking to himself, "I rather think you are going to get into trouble before morning."

And doubtless Reddy would have done exactly that — but for the wisdom of sly old Granny.

