

It seemed to Reddy Fox as if time had never passed so slowly as it did this particular night while he and Granny Fox waited until Granny felt it was safe to visit Farmer Brown's chicken house and see if by any chance there was a way to get inside. Reddy tried not to hope too much. Granny had found a way to get the gate to the chicken yard left open, but this would do them no good unless there was some way of getting into the house, and he very much doubted there was. But if there was a way, he wanted to know it, and he was impatient to start.

But Granny was in no hurry. Not that she wasn't just as eager for a fat chicken as Reddy was, but she was too wise and clever and sly to take any unnecessary risks.

"There is nothing to be gained by being in too much of a hurry, Reddy," said she, "and often a great deal is lost that way. A fat chicken will taste just as good a little later as it would now, and it would be foolish to go up to Farmer Brown's until we are sure that everyone there is asleep. But to put your mind at ease, I'll tell you what we will do — we'll go where we can see Farmer Brown's house and watch until the last light goes out."

So they trotted to a spot where they could see Farmer Brown's house, and there they sat down to watch. It seemed to Reddy that those lights would never go out. But at last they did.

"Come on, Granny!" he cried, jumping to his feet.

"Not yet, Reddy. Not yet," replied Granny. "We have to give people time to fall into a deep sleep. If we get into that chicken house, those chickens might make a lot of noise, and if that happens, we want to be sure that Farmer Brown and Farmer Brown's boy are already deep asleep."

This was good advice, and Reddy knew it. So with a groan he threw himself back down in the snow to wait. At last Granny got up, stretched, and looked up at the shining stars. "Come on," said she, and led the way.

Up behind the barn and around it they moved like two shadows, just as quietly as shadows. They could hear Bowser the Hound sighing in his sleep in his cozy little house, and they grinned at each other. Quietly they moved over to the chicken yard. The gate was open, just as Granny had told Reddy it would be. They trotted quickly across the chicken yard, straight to the place where they had many times seen the chickens go in and out through a small hole. It was closed. Reddy had expected that. Still, he was terribly disappointed. He barely glanced at it.

"I knew it would be no use," he said with a half-whine.

But Granny paid no attention to him. She went up close to the hole and pushed gently against the small door that covered it. It didn't move. Then she noticed that at one edge there was a tiny crack. She tried to push her nose in, but the crack was too narrow. Then she tried a paw. A claw caught on the edge of the door, and it moved ever so slightly. Then Granny knew that the small door was not actually locked. Granny lay flat on the ground and got to work, first with one paw, then with the other. After a while she caught her claws on it just right again, and it moved a little more. No, that door was definitely not locked, and that crack was a little wider.

"What are you wasting your time there for?" demanded Reddy crossly. "We should be off hunting if we want to eat anything tonight."

Granny said nothing but kept working. She had figured out that this was a sliding door. Soon the crack was wide enough for her to get her nose in. Then she pushed and moved her head this way and that. The small door slowly slid back, and when Reddy turned to speak to her again — he had had his back to her — she was nowhere to be seen. Reddy just stood there and stared. There was no Granny Fox, but there was a dark hole where she had been working, and from it came the most wonderful smell — the smell of fat chickens! It felt to Reddy as if his stomach completely turned over with longing. He rubbed his eyes to make sure he was awake. Then in an instant he was inside that hole himself.

"Sh-h-h, be quiet!" whispered old Granny Fox.


