

The long hard winter had passed, and spring had come. Prickly Porky the Porcupine climbed down from a tall poplar tree and slowly stretched himself. He was tired of eating. He was tired of swinging in the treetop.

"I think I'll have a sunbath," said Prickly Porky, and lazily walked toward the edge of the Green Forest looking for a warm, bright spot in the sun.

Now Prickly Porky's stomach was very, very full. He was fat and naturally lazy, so when he came to the doorstep of an old house just on the edge of the Green Forest, he sat down to rest. It was sunny and warm there, and the longer he sat the less he felt like moving. He looked around with his dull eyes and made a little sound to himself.

"It's an empty house. Nobody lives here, and I don't think anybody will care if I take a nap right here on the doorstep," said Prickly Porky to himself. "And I don't care if they do," he added, because Prickly Porky the Porcupine was afraid of nobody and nothing.

So Prickly Porky made himself as comfortable as he could, yawned once or twice, tried to wink at jolly, round, red Mr. Sun who was winking and smiling down at him, and then fell fast asleep right on the doorstep of the old house.

Now the old house had been empty. Nobody had lived there for a long, long time, a very long time indeed. But it happened that the night before, old Granny Fox and Reddy Fox had had to move out of their nice home on the edge of the Green Meadows because Farmer Brown's boy had found it. Reddy was very stiff and sore because he had been shot by a hunter. He was so sore he could barely walk, and could not go very far. So old Granny Fox had brought him to the old empty house and put him to bed there.

"Nobody will think of looking for us here, because everyone knows that nobody lives here," said old Granny Fox, as she made Reddy as comfortable as possible.

As soon as it was daylight, Granny Fox slipped out to watch for Farmer Brown's boy, because she felt sure he would come back to the house they had left, and sure enough he did. He brought a shovel and dug the house open, and the whole time old Granny Fox was watching him from behind a fence corner and laughing to think that she had been smart enough to move during the night.

But Reddy Fox didn't know anything about this. He was so tired that he slept and slept and slept. It was the middle of the morning when he finally woke up. He yawned and stretched, and when he stretched he groaned because he was so stiff and sore. Then he limped up toward the doorway to see if old Granny Fox had left any breakfast outside for him.

It was dark, very dark. Reddy was confused. Could it be that he had gotten up before daylight — that he hadn't slept as long as he thought? Perhaps he had slept all day and it was night again. Oh, how hungry he was!

"I hope Granny has caught a nice fat chicken for me," thought Reddy, and his mouth watered.

Just then he walked straight into something. "Wow!" screamed Reddy Fox, and pressed both hands to his nose. Something was sticking into it. It was one of the sharp little spines that Prickly Porky hides in his coat. Reddy Fox understood then why the old house was so dark. Prickly Porky was blocking the doorway.

