

Listen and you will hear all about three rogues. Two were dressed in red and were Granny and Reddy Fox. And one was dressed in gray and was Old Man Coyote. They were the slyest, cleverest rogues on all the Green Meadows or in all the Green Forest. All three had gone out to steal the same dinner, but the funny thing is that they didn't plan to steal it from the same person. And even funnier is that one of them didn't even know where that dinner was or what kind of dinner it would be.

True to his plan to find out what Granny and Reddy Fox were eating and where they were getting it, Old Man Coyote hid where he could see what was happening around Farmer Brown's. He felt sure that was where Granny and Reddy were getting their food. He had only waited a little while when along came Granny and Reddy Fox past the place where Old Man Coyote was hiding. They didn't see him. Of course not. He made sure they had no chance to. But anyway, they weren't thinking of him. Their thoughts were all on the dinner they intended to get and the clever trick they would use to get it.

With their minds fully on that dinner, they slipped up behind the barn and got ready to use the trick that had worked so well before. Old Man Coyote crept after them. He saw Reddy Fox lie down where he could look around the corner of the barn to watch Bowser the Hound and to see that no one else was around. He saw Granny leave Reddy there and hurry away. Old Man Coyote's mind worked fast.

"I can't be in two places at once," he thought, "so I can only watch one of them. Which one should it be? Granny, of course. Granny is the smarter of the two, and whatever they are up to, she is behind it. Granny is the one to follow."

So, like a gray shadow, clever Old Man Coyote crept after Granny Fox and watched her hide behind the corner of the shed at the end of which was Bowser the Hound's little house. He crept as close as he dared and then lay flat on the ground behind a small bunch of dead grass close to the shed. For some time nothing happened, and Old Man Coyote was puzzled. Every now and then, Granny Fox would look behind her and all around to make sure no danger was near, but she didn't see Old Man Coyote. After what seemed like a long time to him, he heard a door open on the other side of the shed. It was Mrs. Brown carrying Bowser's dinner out to him. Of course, Old Man Coyote didn't know this. He knew by the sounds that someone had come out of the house, and it made him nervous. He didn't like being so close to Farmer Brown's house in broad daylight. But he kept his eyes on Granny Fox, and he saw her ears stand up in a way that told him those sounds were exactly what she had been waiting for.

"If she isn't afraid, I don't need to be," he thought cleverly. After a few minutes he heard a door close and knew that whoever had come out had gone back inside. Almost immediately Bowser the Hound began to yelp and whine. Quickly Granny Fox disappeared around the corner of the shed. Just as quickly, Old Man Coyote ran forward and looked around the corner. There was Bowser the Hound pulling at his chain, and just beyond his reach was Reddy Fox, grinning in the most irritating way. And there was Granny Fox, backing up and dragging Bowser's dinner with her. In a flash Old Man Coyote understood the plan, and he almost laughed out loud at how clever it was. Then he quickly moved back behind the shed and waited. In a minute Granny Fox appeared, dragging Bowser's dinner. She was so focused on getting that dinner that she almost backed right into Old Man Coyote without realizing he was anywhere near.

"Thank you, Granny. You don't need to bother with it any longer — I'll take it now," growled Old Man Coyote in Granny's ear.

Granny let go of that dinner as if it had burned her tongue, and with a frightened little yelp she jumped to one side. A minute later Reddy came racing around from behind the barn, eager for his share. What he saw was Old Man Coyote quickly eating that twice-stolen dinner while Granny Fox danced with rage.
