

"Just as I thought," muttered Reddy Fox as he looked through the bushes on the bank of the Big River and saw Quacker swimming in the water where it ran too fast to freeze. "We have just as much chance of catching him as I have of jumping over the moon. That's what I'll tell Granny."

He carefully crept back so Quacker would not see him. When he reached the place where Granny was waiting, his face wore a very rude expression.

"Well," said Granny Fox, "what should we do to catch him?"

"Learn to swim like a fish and fly like a bird," replied Reddy in such a rude tone that Granny had to work hard not to hit him.

"You mean you think he can't be caught?" she said quietly.

"I don't just think it — I know it!" snapped Reddy. "Not by us, anyway," he added.

"I suppose you wouldn't even try?" said Granny.

"I am old enough to know when I am wasting my time," replied Reddy, tossing his head.

"In other words, you think I am a silly old Fox who has lost her mind," said Granny sharply.

"No-o. I didn't say that," protested Reddy, looking very uncomfortable.

"But you think it," said Granny. "Now listen, Mr. Smarty. You do exactly as I tell you. Go back there where you can watch Quacker and everything that happens, and make sure he cannot see you. Now go."

Reddy went. There was nothing else he could do. He didn't dare disobey. Granny watched until Reddy had reached his hiding place. Then — what do you think she did? She walked right out onto the little beach below Reddy, in plain sight of Quacker! Yes, that is exactly what she did!

Then she began doing something so strange that it is no wonder Reddy was sure Granny had lost her mind. She rolled over and over. She chased her tail round and round until it made Reddy dizzy to watch. She jumped up in the air. She ran back and forth. She played with a small stick. And the whole time, she did not pay any attention to Quacker the Duck.

Reddy stared and stared. What had come over Granny? She had gone crazy. Yes, that had to be it. She had gone without food so long that she had lost her mind. Poor Granny! She was acting like a child again. Reddy could remember doing such things himself when he was very young, just to show how happy he felt. But for a grown Fox to do such things was embarrassing, to say the least. You see, Reddy cares a great deal about looking dignified. It was worse than embarrassing — it was truly shameful. He really hoped that none of his neighbors would happen to pass by and see Granny acting like this. He would never hear the end of it if they did.

Over and over rolled Granny, and around and around she chased her tail. Snow flew up in a cloud around her. And the whole time she made no sound. Reddy was just trying to decide whether to walk away and leave her until she came back to her senses, or to go out and try to stop her, when he happened to look out at the open water where Quacker was. Quacker was sitting up as straight as he could. In fact, he had raised his wings to help him sit up on his tail, so he could see better what old Granny Fox was doing.

"I can't believe it," muttered Reddy. "I think that duck is closer than he was!"

Reddy crouched lower than ever, and instead of watching Granny he watched Quacker the Duck.

