

Old Granny Fox never said anything truer than that. It is strange — very strange — how sometimes curiosity can get the better of even the wisest and most careful people. Even old Granny Fox herself has been known to get into trouble because of it. We expect it from Peter Rabbit, but Peter is not any more curious than some others who you wouldn't expect it from.

Now Quacker the Wild Duck is the last one you would expect to get into trouble because of curiosity. Quacker had spent the summer in the Far North with Honker the Goose. In fact, he had been born there. He had started his journey to the warm South at the same time as Honker, but when he reached the Big River he had found plenty to eat and had decided to stay until he had to move on. The Big River had frozen over everywhere except in this one place where the water was too fast to freeze, and there Quacker had stayed. He was a good diver and could find plenty to eat on the bottom of the river. No one could reach him out there, except maybe Roughleg the Hawk. And if Roughleg did come along, all Quacker had to do was dive and come up far away, then laugh and make fun of Roughleg. The cold water could not get through his oily feathers, so he didn't mind the cold at all.

In his home in the Far North there were so many dangers that Quacker had learned early to always stay alert and take good care of himself. On his way down to the Big River he had been hunted by men with guns, and he had learned all about them. In fact, he felt quite able to keep himself out of danger. He was rather proud of the fact that nobody was smart enough to catch him.

I think he believed he knew everything there was to know. In this way, he was quite a lot like Reddy Fox himself. That was because he was young. It is the way with young Ducks and Foxes and with some other young ones I know.

When Quacker first saw Granny Fox on the little beach, he flicked his little tail and smiled, thinking how much she must wish she could catch him. But as far as he could see, Granny did not look at him even once.

"She doesn't even know I'm out here," thought Quacker. Then suddenly he sat up very straight and looked with all his might. What on earth was wrong with that Fox? She was acting as if she had suddenly lost her mind.

Over and over she rolled. Around and around she spun. She did somersaults. She lay on her back and kicked her legs in the air. Never in his life had he seen anyone act like that. Something had to be wrong with her.

Quacker became excited. He could not take his eyes off old Granny Fox. He began to swim closer. He wanted to see better. He completely forgot that she was a Fox. She was moving so fast that she looked like just a strange red blur on the beach. Whatever she was doing was very strange and very exciting. He swam closer and closer. The excitement was catching. He began to swim in circles himself. The whole time, he moved nearer and nearer to the shore. He felt no fear at all. He was simply curious. He wanted to see better.

The whole time Granny was doing her tricks, she was watching Quacker, even though he didn't know it. As he swam closer and closer to shore, Granny rolled and tumbled farther and farther back. At last Quacker was close to the shore. If he kept going, he would be on dry land in just a few minutes. And the whole time he stared and stared. No thought of danger entered his head. You see, there was no room for it — his head was so full of curiosity.

"In another minute I'll have him," thought Granny, and she spun around faster than ever. And just then, something happened.

