

Reddy Fox thought about that saying many times as he hunted through the Green Forest that night, afraid to go home. You see, he had almost had Quacker the Duck for dinner that day — and then hadn't — and it was all his own fault. That was why he was afraid to go home. From his hiding place on the bank, he had watched Quacker swim closer and closer until he was almost on the shore where old Granny Fox was spinning and rolling and tumbling around as if she had completely lost her mind. In fact, Reddy had been quite sure she had when she first started. It wasn't until he saw that her curiosity trick was drawing Quacker right in — so that in another minute or two Granny would be able to catch him — that he understood Granny was not crazy at all. She was actually teaching him a new trick while also trying to catch their dinner.

When he realized this, he should have felt ashamed of himself for doubting Granny's cleverness and for thinking he knew everything. But he was too excited for such thoughts. Closer and closer to the shore came Quacker, his eyes fixed on the red, spinning form of Granny. Reddy's own eyes shone with excitement. Would Quacker keep coming right up to the shore? Closer and closer and closer he came. Reddy moved around restlessly. He couldn't see as well as he wanted to. The bushes he was hiding behind were blocking his view. He wanted to see Granny make that jump that would mean dinner for both of them.

Forgetting what Granny had told him, Reddy eagerly raised his head to look over the edge of the bank. At that exact moment, Quacker happened to look that way. His sharp eyes caught the movement of Reddy's head, and in an instant all his curiosity disappeared. That sharp face looking at him over the edge of the bank could only mean one thing — danger! It had all been a trick! He understood it now. Like a flash he turned. There was the sound of strong wings beating the air and the patter of feet on the water as he took off. Then he flew out to the safety of the open water. Granny jumped, but she was just too late and only managed to get her feet wet.

Of course, Granny didn't know what had frightened Quacker, not at first anyway. But she had her suspicions. She turned and looked up at the place where Reddy had been hiding. She couldn't see him. Then she jumped up the bank. Reddy wasn't there, but far away across the snow-covered Green Meadows was a small red shape growing smaller and smaller. Reddy was running away. Then she knew. At first Granny was very angry. You know how terrible it is to be hungry and have a good dinner disappear just as it is almost within reach.

"I'll teach that young rascal a lesson he won't forget when I get home," she muttered as she watched him. Then she went back to the edge of the Big River, and there she found a dead fish that had washed ashore. It was a very good fish, and when she had eaten it, Granny felt better.

"Anyway," she thought, "I have taught him a new trick and one he is not likely to forget. He knows now that Granny still knows a few tricks that he doesn't, and next time he won't feel so sure he knows everything. I think it was worth it, even if I didn't catch Quacker. Oh, he would have tasted so good!" Granny pressed her lips together and started for home.

But Reddy, with a guilty heart, was afraid to go home. So, miserable and hungry, he hunted through the Green Forest all the long night and wished and wished that he had listened to what old Granny Fox had told him.

