

There is a saying among the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows that goes something like this:

"You must your eyes wide open keep
To catch Old Granny Fox asleep."

This means that old Granny Fox is so smart, so clever, and so alert at all times that you would have to be very smart indeed to fool her or get the better of her. Reddy Fox is smart — very smart. But Reddy is not nearly as smart as old Granny Fox. You see, he has not lived nearly as long, so of course there is a lot of knowledge and experience stored in Granny's head that Reddy knows little about.

But once in a while, even the smartest people make a mistake. Yes, that does happen. They sometimes become careless. That is just what happened to old Granny Fox. With all her smartness and cleverness and wisdom, she became careless. And all the smartness and cleverness and wisdom in the world is useless if the person who has it becomes careless.

You see, old Granny Fox had become so used to thinking that she was smarter than anyone else — except perhaps Old Man Coyote — that she actually believed no one was smart enough to ever surprise her. Yes, she truly believed that. Now, you know that when a person reaches the point of thinking that nobody in the whole world is quite as smart as they are, that person is like Peter Rabbit when he got ready to jump out onto the smooth ice of the Smiling Pool — getting ready for a fall. This was exactly the situation with old Granny Fox.

Because she had lived near Farmer Brown's for so long and had been hunted so many times by Farmer Brown's boy and by Bowser the Hound, she had got the idea that no matter what she did, they would never be able to catch her. So at last she became careless. Yes, she became careless. And that is something no Fox — or anybody else — can afford to do.

Now on the edge of the Green Forest there was a warm, sunny little hill that overlooked the Green Meadows. It was quite the most pleasant and comfortable place for a nap in the sun that you could imagine. At least, that is what old Granny Fox thought. She took naps there very often. It was her favorite resting place. When Bowser the Hound had followed her trail and chased her until she was tired of running and had had enough exercise, she would use one of her clever tricks to make Bowser lose her trail. Then she would go straight to that hill to rest and smile to herself about how clever she was.

One day she did this when there was fresh snow on the ground. Of course, every time she put a foot down she left a print in the snow. And where she curled up in the sun, she left the shape of her body in the snow. These prints were very easy to see, and Farmer Brown's boy saw them.

He had been walking through the Green Forest late in the afternoon and happened to come across Granny's footprints. Just for fun he followed them and came to the sunny little hill. Granny had left some time before, but of course she couldn't take the shape of her body in the snow with her. It remained, and Farmer Brown's boy saw it and immediately understood what it meant. He smiled, and if Granny Fox could have seen that smile, she would have felt uneasy. You see, he now knew that he had found the place where Granny liked to take her naps in the sun.

"So," he said, "this is the place where you rest, old Mrs. Fox, after making Bowser run almost off his feet. I think we will give you a surprise one of these days. Yes, I think we will give you a surprise. You have fooled us many times, and now it is our turn."

The next day Farmer Brown's boy picked up his gun and sent Bowser the Hound to look for old Granny Fox's trail. It wasn't long before Bowser's loud voice told the whole world that he had found Granny's tracks. Farmer Brown's boy smiled just as he had the day before. Then with his gun he went to the Green Forest and hid under some pine branches right at the edge of that sunny little hill.

He waited patiently for a long, long time. He heard Bowser's loud voice growing more and more excited as he followed old Granny Fox. After a while Bowser stopped barking and began to whine impatiently. Farmer Brown's boy knew exactly what that meant. It meant that Granny had used one of her smart tricks and Bowser had lost her trail.

A few minutes later, out of the Green Forest came old Granny Fox, and she was smiling, because once again she had fooled Bowser the Hound and could now take a nap in peace. Still smiling, she turned around two or three times to get comfortable and then, with a sigh of contentment, curled up for a nap in the sun, and in a few minutes she was asleep. And just a little way away, behind the pine branches, sat Farmer Brown's boy holding his gun and smiling. At last he had caught old Granny Fox napping.

