

Old Granny Fox was dreaming. Yes, she was dreaming. There she lay, curled up on the sunny little hill at the edge of the Green Forest, fast asleep and dreaming. It was a very pleasant and comfortable place. You see, jolly, round, bright Mr. Sun sent his warmest rays right down there from the blue, blue sky. When old Granny Fox was tired, she often slipped over there for a short nap and a warm rest even in winter. She was quite sure that nobody knew about this spot. It was one of her secrets.

This morning old Granny Fox was very tired, more tired than usual. First of all, she had been out hunting all night. Then, before she could get home, Bowser the Hound had found her tracks and started to follow them. Of course, she couldn't go home then. That would never do. Bowser would have followed her straight there and found out where she lived. So she had led Bowser far away across the Green Meadows and through the Green Forest and finally used one of her smart tricks that mixed up her tracks so well that Bowser could no longer follow them. While he sniffed and sniffed and sniffed some more with that wonderful nose of his, trying to figure out where she had gone, old Granny Fox had trotted straight to the sunny little hill and curled up to rest. She fell asleep right away.

Now old Granny Fox, like most of the other little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows, sleeps with her ears open. Her eyes may be closed, but not her ears. Those are always on guard, even when she is asleep. At the smallest sound, her eyes fly open, and she is ready to run. If it were not for her sharp ears keeping watch, she wouldn't dare take naps out in the open in broad daylight. If you ever want to catch a Fox asleep, you must not make the tiniest, smallest noise. Just remember that.

Now old Granny Fox had no sooner closed her eyes than she began to dream. At first it was a very pleasant dream — the nicest dream a Fox can have. It was about a chicken dinner, as much chicken as she could eat. Granny truly enjoyed that dream. It made her press her lips together as if the food were real and not just a dream.

But soon the dream changed and became a bad dream. Yes, it became a very bad dream. It was as bad as it had first been good. In the dream, it seemed that Bowser the Hound had become very clever, cleverer than she had ever known him to be. No matter what she did, she couldn't fool him. Not one of all the tricks she knew — and she knew a great many — fooled him at all. They didn't confuse him long enough for her to catch her breath.

Bowser kept getting closer and closer in the dream, you understand, until it seemed like his loud voice was right behind her. She was so tired that it felt like she couldn't run another step. It was a very real dream. You know how dreams can sometimes feel very real. That was how it was with old Granny Fox's bad dream. It seemed to her that she could feel Bowser's warm breath and that his big jaws were just about to close on her.

"Oh! Oh!" cried Granny and woke herself up. Her eyes flew open. Then she gave a big sigh of relief as she realized that her terrible fear had only been a bad dream and that she was curled up right on the dear, familiar, old sunny hill — not running for her life at all.

Old Granny Fox smiled at the fright she'd had, and then — well, she didn't know if she was really awake or still dreaming! No, she truly didn't know. For a full minute she couldn't be sure whether what she saw was real or still part of that terrible dream. You see, she was looking directly into the face of Farmer Brown's boy and the end of his gun!

For just a few seconds she didn't move. She couldn't. She was too frightened to move. Then she knew that what she saw was real and not a dream at all. There was no doubt about it. That was Farmer Brown's boy, and that was his gun! In a flash she understood that Farmer Brown's boy must have been hiding behind those pine branches.

Poor old Granny Fox! For once in her life she had been caught napping. She had no hope at all. Farmer Brown's boy only had to fire that gun, and it would all be over for her. She knew it.

