

Poor old Granny Fox! She thought she had been in dangerous situations before, but never, never had she been in such a dangerous situation as this one. There stood Farmer Brown's boy looking along his gun straight at her, only a very short distance away! There was no point in running. Granny knew that. That gun would go "bang!" and it would be the end of her.

For a few seconds she stared at Farmer Brown's boy, too frightened to move or even think. Then she began to wonder why that gun didn't go off. What was Farmer Brown's boy waiting for? She got to her feet. She was sure that her first step would be her last, yet she couldn't just stay there.

How could Farmer Brown's boy do such a terrible thing? Somehow, his face didn't look cruel. He was even beginning to smile. That smile must be because he had caught her napping and knew that this time she could not possibly escape him as she had so many times before. "Oh!" said old Granny Fox softly, under her breath.

And right at that very moment, Farmer Brown's boy did something. What do you think it was? No, he didn't shoot her. He didn't fire his gun. What do you think he did? He threw a snowball at old Granny Fox and shouted "Boo!" That is what he did and all he did — except laugh as Granny jumped high in the air and then made those black legs of hers run faster than ever before.

Every moment Granny expected to hear that gun fire, and it felt like her heart would burst with fear as she ran, thinking every jump might be her last. But the gun didn't fire, and after a while, when she felt she was safe, she turned to look back over her shoulder. Farmer Brown's boy was standing right where she had last seen him, and he was laughing harder than ever. Yes, he was laughing, and although old Granny Fox didn't think so at the time, his laugh was good to hear, because it was friendly and cheerful and everything an honest laugh should be.

"Run, Granny! Run!" shouted Farmer Brown's boy. "And the next time you are tempted to steal my chickens, just remember that I caught you napping and let you go when I could have shot you. Just remember that and leave my chickens alone."

Now it happened that Tommy Tit the Chickadee had seen everything, and he was so happy that he was almost bursting with joy. "Dee, dee, dee, Chickadee! It is just as I have always said — Farmer Brown's boy isn't bad. He would be friends with everyone if everyone would let him," he cried.

"Maybe, maybe," said Sammy Jay, who had also seen everything. "But he's far too smart for me to trust. Oh my! Oh my! What news this will be to tell! Old Granny Fox will never hear the end of it. If she ever boasts again about how smart she is, all we will have to do is remind her of the time Farmer Brown's boy caught her napping. Ha! Ha! Ha! I must hurry and find my cousin, Blacky the Crow. This will make him laugh till it hurts."

As for old Granny Fox, she feared Farmer Brown's boy more than ever, not because of what he had done but because of what he had not done. You see, nothing could make her believe that he wanted to be her friend. She thought he had let her go just to show her he was smarter than she was. Instead of gratitude, hate and fear filled Granny's heart. You know —

People who themselves do wrong
For others rarely wish things good.

