

Sammy Jay hurried through the Green Forest, laughing as he flew. Sammy was full of news to tell — how old Granny Fox had been caught napping by Farmer Brown's boy. Sammy would not have believed it if someone had told him. No, he wouldn't. But he had seen it with his own eyes, and it delighted him to think that old Granny Fox, whom everybody thought was so sly and clever and smart, had been caught actually asleep by the very one she was most afraid of but always looked down on.

Soon Sammy spotted Reddy Fox trotting along the Lone Little Path. Reddy was always boasting about how smart Granny Fox was. He had boasted about it so much that everybody was tired of hearing it. When he saw Reddy trotting along, Sammy laughed even harder. He hid in a thick hemlock tree and as Reddy passed he called out:

"Had I such a stupid old Granny
As some folks who think they are smart,
I never would boast of my Granny,
But live by myself quite apart!"

Reddy looked up angrily. He couldn't see Sammy Jay, but he knew Sammy's voice. Everyone knows the voice of Sammy Jay. Of course it was foolish — very foolish — of Reddy to be angry, and even more foolish to show it. If he had stopped a moment to think, he would have known that Sammy was saying such a mean, irritating thing just to make him angry, and that the angrier he got, the happier Sammy Jay would be. But like many people, Reddy let his temper take over his common sense.

"Who says Granny Fox is stupid?" he snarled.

"I do," replied Sammy Jay immediately. "I say she is stupid."

"She is smarter than anyone else in the whole Green Forest and on all the Green Meadows. She is smarter than anyone else in the whole world," boasted Reddy, and he truly believed it.

"She isn't smart enough to fool Farmer Brown's boy," said Sammy, trying to make him angry.

"What's that? Who says so? Has something happened to Granny Fox?" Reddy forgot his anger in a sudden, terrible fear. Could Granny have been shot by Farmer Brown's boy?

"Nothing much, only Farmer Brown's boy caught her napping in broad daylight," replied Sammy, and laughed so that Reddy could hear him.

"I don't believe it!" snapped Reddy. "I don't believe a single word of it! Nobody has ever caught old Granny Fox napping, and nobody ever will."

"I don't care whether you believe it or not — it's true, because I saw it," replied Sammy Jay.

"You — you — you —" began Reddy Fox.

"Go ask Tommy Tit the Chickadee if it isn't true. He saw it too," Sammy Jay interrupted.

"Dee, dee, dee, Chickadee! It's true, and Farmer Brown's boy only threw a snowball at her and let her run away without shooting at her," said a new voice. There sat Tommy Tit himself.

Reddy didn't know what to think or say. He just couldn't believe it, yet he had never known Tommy Tit to tell a lie. Sammy Jay alone he wouldn't have believed. But then Tommy Tit and Sammy Jay told Reddy everything they had seen — how Farmer Brown's boy had surprised old Granny Fox and then let her go unharmed. Reddy had to believe it. If Tommy Tit said it was true, it had to be true. Reddy Fox started off to find old Granny Fox and ask her about it. But a sudden thought popped into his head, and he changed his mind.

"I won't say anything about it until some time when Granny scolds me for being careless," muttered Reddy, with a sly smile. "Then I'll see what she has to say. I don't think she'll scold me so much after this."

Reddy smiled even more, which was not nice of him at all. Instead of feeling sorry that old Granny Fox had been so frightened, he was planning how to get back at her when she scolded him for his own carelessness.

