
   Life at the Three Chimneys was never quite the same again after the old gentleman came to see his grandson. Although they now knew his name, the children never used it — at least, not when they were by themselves. To them he was always the old gentleman, and I think we should call him that too. It wouldn't make him seem any more real to you if I told you his name was Snooks or Jenkins (which it wasn't) — and after all, I must be allowed to keep one secret. It's the only one. I have told you everything else, except for what I am going to tell you in this chapter, which is the last. Of course, I haven't told you EVERYTHING. If I did that, the book would never end, and that would be a pity, wouldn't it?

Well, as I was saying, life at Three Chimneys was never quite the same again. The cook and the housemaid were very nice (I don't mind telling you their names — they were Clara and Ethelwyn), but they told Mother they didn't think they needed Mrs. Viney around, and that she made things messy. So Mrs. Viney came only two days a week to do washing and ironing. Then Clara and Ethelwyn said they could manage the work fine if nobody interfered, and that meant the children no longer made tea or cleared away or washed up the cups or dusted the rooms.

This would have left a big empty space in their lives, even though they had often pretended to themselves and to each other that they hated housework. But now that Mother had no writing and no housework to do, she had time for lessons. And lessons the children had to do. However nice the person who is teaching you may be, lessons are lessons everywhere in the world, and at their very best they are less fun than peeling potatoes or lighting a fire.

On the other hand, if Mother now had time for lessons, she also had time for play, and for writing little poems for the children as she used to do. She had not had much time for poems since she came to Three Chimneys.

There was one very strange thing about these lessons. Whatever the children were doing, they always wanted to be doing something else. When Peter was doing his Latin, he thought it would be nice to be learning History like Bobbie. Bobbie would have preferred Arithmetic, which was what Phyllis was doing, and Phyllis of course thought Latin was the most interesting lesson of all. And so on.

So one day, when they sat down to their lessons, each of them found a little poem at their place. I am including the poems to show you that their Mother really did understand a little of how children feel about things, and also the kind of words they use — which is true of very few grown-ups. I suppose most grown-ups have very bad memories and have forgotten how they felt when they were small. Of course, the poems are meant to be spoken by the children.


               PETER

     I once thought Caesar easy work —
       How very soft I must have been!
     When they start Caesar with a boy
       He little knows what that will mean.
     Oh, verbs are silly, stupid things.
     I'd rather learn the dates of kings!

               BOBBIE

     The worst of all my lesson things
       Is learning who came after who
     In all the rows of queens and kings,
       With dates for everything they do:
     With dates enough to make you sick —
     I wish it was Arithmetic!

               PHYLLIS

     Such pounds and pounds of apples fill
       My slate — what is the price you'd spend?
     You scratch the numbers out until
       You cry upon the dividend.
     I'd break the slate and shout for joy
     If I did Latin like a boy!

This kind of thing, of course, made lessons much more enjoyable. It means something to know that the person teaching you understands that it isn't easy, and doesn't think it's just your own slowness that means you don't know your lessons before you've learned them!

Then as Jim's leg got better it was very pleasant to go up and sit with him and hear stories about his school life and the other boys. There was one boy called Parr, about whom Jim seemed to have the lowest possible opinion, and another boy called Wigsby Minor, whose ideas Jim respected a great deal. There were also three brothers called Paley, and the youngest was called Paley Terts, and he loved fighting.

Peter listened to all of this with great joy, and Mother seemed to have listened with some interest too, because one day she gave Jim a sheet of paper on which she had written a poem about Parr, bringing in Paley and Wigsby by name in a wonderful way, as well as all the reasons Jim had for not liking Parr, and Wigsby's wise opinion on the matter. Jim was very pleased. He had never had a poem written just for him before. He read it until he knew it by heart and then he sent it to Wigsby, who liked it almost as much as Jim did. Perhaps you'll like it too.


               THE NEW BOY

     His name is Parr: he says that he
     Is given bread and milk for tea.
     He says his father killed a bear.
     He says his mother cuts his hair.

     He wears rubber boots when it's wet.
     I've heard his people call him "Pet"!
     He has no proper sense of shame;
     He told the boys his Christian name.

     He cannot keep the wicket at all,
     He's frightened of a cricket ball.
     He reads indoors for hours and hours.
     He knows the names of awful flowers.

     He speaks his French just like a teacher —
     A stuck-up, show-off sort of feature —
     He won't stand guard, skips out his turn
     And says he came to school to learn!

     He won't play football, says it hurts;
     He wouldn't fight with Paley Terts;
     He couldn't whistle if he tried,
     And when we laughed at him he cried!

     Now Wigsby Minor says that Parr
     Is only like all new boys are.
     I know when I first came to school
     I wasn't such a complete fool!

Jim could never understand how Mother could have been clever enough to write it. To the others it seemed nice, but natural. You see, they had always been used to having a mother who could write poems that sounded just like everyday speech, even to the rather shocking line at the end, which was Jim's very own expression.

Jim taught Peter to play chess and draughts and dominoes, and altogether it was a pleasant quiet time.

But Jim's leg kept getting better and better, and a general feeling began to grow among Bobbie, Peter, and Phyllis that something ought to be done to entertain him — not just games, but something really special. But it was very difficult to think of anything.

"It's no good," said Peter, when all of them had thought and thought until their heads felt heavy and full. "If we can't think of anything to amuse him, we just can't, and that's that. Perhaps something will happen on its own that he'll enjoy."

"Things DO happen by themselves sometimes, without you making them," said Phyllis, in a way that suggested she usually made most things happen herself.

"I wish something would happen," said Bobbie, dreamily. "Something wonderful."

And something wonderful did happen exactly four days after she said this. I wish I could say it was three days after, because in fairy tales it is always three days after that things happen. But this is not a fairy story, and besides, it really was four and not three, and I am always completely truthful.

They seemed to hardly be Railway children at all in those days, and as time went on each of them felt uneasy about this. Phyllis said it out loud one day.

"I wonder if the Railway misses us," she said sadly. "We never go to see it now."

"It seems ungrateful," said Bobbie. "We loved it so when we had nobody else to play with."

"Perks is always coming up to ask how Jim is," said Peter. "And the signalman's little boy is better. He told me so."

"I didn't mean the people," explained Phyllis. "I meant the dear Railway itself."

"The thing I don't like," said Bobbie, on this fourth day, which was a Tuesday, "is that we've stopped waving to the 9.15 and sending our love to Father by it."

"Let's start again," said Phyllis. And they did.

Somehow the change in everything — with servants in the house and Mother not writing — made the time seem very long since that strange morning at the very beginning, when they had got up so early and burned the bottom out of the kettle and had apple pie for breakfast and first saw the Railway.

It was September now, and the grass on the slope to the Railway was dry and short. Small long grass stalks stood up like bits of gold wire, thin blue harebells trembled on their tough, slender stems, Gipsy roses opened wide and flat with their purple-coloured petals, and the golden flowers of St. John's Wort shone at the edges of the small pond that lay halfway to the Railway. Bobbie picked a generous bunch of the flowers and thought how pretty they would look on the green-and-pink silky blanket that now covered Jim's poor broken leg.

"Hurry up," said Peter. "Or we'll miss the 9.15!"

"I can't hurry any more than I am," said Phyllis. "Oh, bother! My shoelace has come undone AGAIN!"

"When you get married," said Peter, "your shoelace will come undone going up the church aisle, and the man you're going to marry will trip over it and smash his nose on the stone floor. And then you'll say you won't marry him, and you'll have to be an old maid."

"I won't," said Phyllis. "I'd much rather marry a man with a smashed nose than not marry anyone."

"It would still be terrible to marry a man with a smashed nose," went on Bobbie. "He wouldn't be able to smell the flowers at the wedding. Wouldn't that be awful!"

"Never mind the wedding flowers!" cried Peter. "Look! The signal is down. We must run!"

They ran. And once more they waved their handkerchiefs, without caring at all whether they were clean or not, to the 9.15.

"Take our love to Father!" cried Bobbie. And the others shouted too:

"Take our love to Father!"

The old gentleman waved from his first-class window. He waved very enthusiastically. And there was nothing strange about that, for he always waved. But what was truly remarkable was that from every window handkerchiefs fluttered, newspapers waved, hands waved wildly. The train rushed past with a noise and a roar, the little stones jumped and danced under it as it went by, and the children were left staring at each other.

"Well!" said Peter.

"WELL!" said Bobbie.

"WELL!" said Phyllis.

"What on earth does that mean?" asked Peter, though he did not really expect an answer.

"I don't know," said Bobbie. "Perhaps the old gentleman told the people at his station to look out for us and wave. He knew we would like it!"

And strangely enough, that was exactly what had happened. The old gentleman, who was very well known and respected at his station, had arrived there early that morning and had waited at the door where the young ticket collector stood, and he had said something to every single passenger who passed through that door. And after nodding at what the old gentleman said — and the nods showed every kind of surprise, interest, doubt, happy agreement, and grumpy agreement — each passenger had gone onto the platform and read one particular part of their newspaper. And when the passengers got into the train, they had told the other passengers already sitting there what the old gentleman had said. And then those other passengers had also looked at their newspapers and seemed very surprised and, mostly, pleased. Then, when the train passed the fence where the three children were, newspapers and hands and handkerchiefs were waved like mad, until all that side of the train was white and fluttery like the pictures of the King's Coronation at Maskelyne and Cook's. To the children it almost seemed as though the train itself were alive, and was finally showing back the love they had given it so freely and for so long.

"It is most strangely odd!" said Peter.

"Most strange!" echoed Phyllis.

But Bobbie said, "Don't you think the old gentleman's wave seemed to mean more than usual?"

"No," said the others.

"I do," said Bobbie. "I thought he was trying to tell us something with his newspaper."

"Tell us what?" asked Peter, not unreasonably.

"I don't know," Bobbie answered, "but I feel most terribly strange. I feel exactly as if something is going to happen."

"What is going to happen," said Peter, "is that Phyllis's stocking is going to fall down."

That was quite true. The clip had broken in all the excitement of waving to the 9.15. Bobbie's handkerchief helped for the moment, and they all went home.

Lessons were more than usually difficult for Bobbie that day. In fact, she did so badly on a quite simple problem about dividing 48 pounds of meat and 36 pounds of bread among 144 hungry children that Mother looked at her with concern.

"Don't you feel quite well, dear?" she asked.

"I don't know," was Bobbie's unexpected answer. "I don't know how I feel. It isn't that I'm being lazy. Mother, will you let me off lessons today? I feel as if I want to be completely alone by myself."

"Yes, of course I'll let you off," said Mother. "But —"

Bobbie dropped her slate. It cracked right across the small green mark that is so useful for drawing patterns around, and it was never the same slate again. Without stopping to pick it up, she ran out. Mother caught her in the hall, where she was feeling around blindly among the coats and umbrellas for her garden hat.

"What is it, my sweetheart?" said Mother. "You don't feel ill, do you?"

"I DON'T know," Bobbie answered, slightly out of breath. "But I want to be by myself and see if my head really IS all confused and my stomach all strange and twisted."

"Wouldn't you be better lying down?" Mother said, gently stroking her hair back from her forehead.

"I think I'd feel more awake in the garden," said Bobbie.

But she could not stay in the garden. The tall flowers and the late roses all seemed to be waiting for something to happen. It was one of those still, bright autumn days when everything really does seem to be waiting.

Bobbie could not wait.

"I'll go down to the station," she said, "and talk to Perks and ask about the signalman's little boy."

So she went. On the way she passed the old lady from the Post Office, who gave her a kiss and a hug, but, to Bobbie's surprise, no words except:

"God bless you, love —" and, after a pause, "run along — do."

The shop boy, who had sometimes been slightly rude and a little too superior, now touched his cap and said the surprising words:

"Good morning, Miss, I'm sure —"

The blacksmith, walking along with an open newspaper in his hand, was even stranger in his manner. He grinned widely, though he was usually a man who did not smile much, and waved the newspaper long before he reached her. And as he passed her, he said, answering her "Good morning":

"Good morning to you, Miss, and many more of them! I wish you happiness, I do!"

"Oh!" said Bobbie to herself, and her heart started beating faster. "Something IS going to happen! I know it is — everyone is behaving so strangely, like people do in dreams."

The Station Master shook her hand very warmly. In fact he pumped it up and down like a handle. But he gave her no reason for this unusually excited greeting. He only said:

"The 11.54 is a little late, Miss — extra luggage in the holiday season," and went away very quickly into his private office, where even Bobbie dared not follow him.

Perks was not to be seen, and Bobbie had the platform to herself with only the Station Cat for company. This brown-and-black cat, who was usually shy, came today to rub herself against Bobbie's brown stockings with her back arched, her tail waving, and loud purring.

"My goodness!" said Bobbie, bending down to stroke her. "How very kind everybody is today — even you, Pussy!"

Perks did not appear until the 11.54 was announced, and then he, like everyone else that morning, had a newspaper in his hand.

"Hello!" he said. "Here you are. Well, if THIS is the train, it'll be quick work! Well, God bless you, my dear! I saw it in the paper, and I don't think I was ever so glad about anything in all my life!" He looked at Bobbie for a moment, then said, "I must give you one, Miss, and I hope you won't mind, on a day like this!" and with that he kissed her, first on one cheek and then on the other.

"You're not offended, are you?" he asked anxiously. "I haven't taken too much of a liberty? On a day like this, you know —"

"No, no," said Bobbie. "Of course it isn't too much, dear Mr. Perks. We love you just as much as if you were our uncle — but — on a day like WHAT?"

"Like this!" said Perks. "Didn't I tell you I saw it in the paper?"

"Saw WHAT in the paper?" asked Bobbie. But already the 11.54 was steaming into the station and the Station Master was looking at all the places where Perks should have been and was not.

Bobbie was left standing alone. The Station Cat watched her from under the bench with friendly golden eyes.

Of course you already know exactly what was going to happen. Bobbie did not. She had a vague, confused, waiting feeling — the kind that comes to your heart in dreams. What her heart was waiting for I cannot say — perhaps the very thing that you and I know was about to happen — but her mind expected nothing. It was almost empty, and felt nothing but tiredness and confusion and a hollow feeling, like the feeling in your body when you have been on a very long walk and it is far past your normal dinner time.

Only three people got off the 11.54. The first was a country man with two basket boxes full of live chickens whose brown heads stuck out anxiously through the wooden bars. The second was Miss Peckitt, the grocer's wife's cousin, with a tin box and three brown-paper parcels. And the third —

"Oh! My Daddy, my Daddy!" That cry went like a knife into the heart of everyone on the train, and people put their heads out of the windows to see a tall pale man with lips pressed tightly together, and a little girl clinging to him with her arms and legs, while his arms went tightly around her.

"I knew something wonderful was going to happen," said Bobbie, as they walked up the road. "But I didn't think it was going to be this. Oh, my Daddy, my Daddy!"

"Didn't Mother get my letter?" Father asked.

"There weren't any letters this morning. Oh! Daddy! It IS really you, isn't it?"

The grip of a hand she had never forgotten told her that it was. "You must go in by yourself, Bobbie, and tell Mother quietly that everything is all right. They've caught the man who really did it. Everyone knows now that it wasn't your Daddy."

"I always knew it wasn't," said Bobbie. "Me and Mother and our old gentleman."

"Yes," he said. "It's all thanks to him. Mother wrote and told me you had found out. And she told me what you had been to her. My own little girl!" They stopped for a moment then.

And now I see them crossing the field. Bobbie goes into the house, trying to keep her eyes from showing what she feels before her lips have found the right words to tell Mother quietly that the sadness and the struggle and the time apart are over and done with, and that Father has come home.

I see Father walking in the garden, waiting — waiting. He is looking at the flowers, and each flower is a wonderful thing to eyes that for all these months of Spring and Summer have seen only stone floors and gravel and a little unwilling grass. But his eyes keep turning towards the house. And soon he leaves the garden and goes to stand outside the nearest door. It is the back door, and across the yard the swallows are flying in circles. They are getting ready to fly away from the cold winds and sharp frost to the land where it is always summer. They are the same swallows that the children built the little clay nests for.

Now the house door opens. Bobbie's voice calls:

"Come in, Daddy; come in!"

He goes in and the door is shut. I think we will not open the door or follow him. I think that just now we are not needed there. I think it will be best for us to go quietly away. At the end of the field, among the thin gold grass and the harebells and Gipsy roses and St. John's Wort, we may just take one last look, over our shoulders, at the white house where neither we nor anyone else is needed now.
