
   "Oh, look up! Speak to me! Please, speak!" The children said these words again and again to the boy in the red jersey who was not moving. He was sitting with his eyes closed and his face very pale against the wall of the tunnel.

"Wet his ears with milk," said Bobbie. "I know people do that when someone faints — they use cologne water. But I think milk will work just as well."

So they put milk on his ears, and some of it ran down his neck under the red jersey. It was very dark in the tunnel. The small piece of candle that Peter had carried, which was now burning on a flat stone, gave almost no light at all.

"Oh, DO look up," said Phyllis. "Please! For my sake! I think he's dead."

"For my sake," repeated Bobbie. "No, he isn't."

"For anyone's sake," said Peter. "Come on, wake up." And he shook the boy by the arm.

Then the boy in the red jersey took a deep breath, opened his eyes, closed them again, and said in a very quiet voice, "Stop it."

"Oh, he's NOT dead," said Phyllis. "I KNEW he wasn't," and she started to cry.

"What's wrong? I'm all right," said the boy.

"Drink this," said Peter firmly, pushing the top of the milk bottle into the boy's mouth. The boy moved his head, and some of the milk spilled before he could free his mouth to say:

"What is it?"

"It's milk," said Peter. "Don't be afraid, you are with friends. Phil, stop crying right now."

"Do drink it," said Bobbie gently. "It will do you good."

So he drank. And the three stood nearby without saying anything to him.

"Leave him for a minute," Peter whispered. "He'll be all right as soon as the milk starts to help him."

He was.

"I'm better now," he said. "I remember everything." He tried to move, but the movement made him groan. "Oh no! I think I've broken my leg," he said.

"Did you fall?" asked Phyllis, sniffing.

"Of course not — I'm not a small child," said the boy, with feeling. "It was one of those awful wires that tripped me up, and when I tried to stand again I couldn't, so I sat down. It really does hurt, though. How did YOU get here?"

"We saw you all go into the tunnel and then we went over the hill to see you all come out the other side. And the others came out — all except you. So we are a rescue group," said Peter, proudly.

"You were very brave, I must say," said the boy.

"Oh, it was nothing," said Peter, modestly. "Do you think you could walk if we helped you?"

"I could try," said the boy.

He did try. But he could only stand on one foot. The other one dragged behind him in a very bad way.

"Let me sit down. I feel like I'm dying," said the boy. "Let go of me — let go, quickly—" He lay down and closed his eyes. The others looked at each other in the weak light of the little candle.

"What on earth!" said Peter.

"Listen," said Bobbie quickly. "You must go and get help. Go to the nearest house."

"Yes, that's the only thing to do," said Peter. "Come on."

"If you take his feet and Phil and I take his head, we could carry him to the small space in the wall."

They did it. It was perhaps good for the boy that he had fainted again.

"Now," said Bobbie. "I'll stay with him. You take the longer piece of candle, and — oh, be quick, because this piece won't burn for long."

"I don't think Mother would like me leaving you here," said Peter, not sure. "Let me stay, and you and Phil go."

"No, no," said Bobbie. "You and Phil go — and lend me your knife. I'll try to take his boot off before he wakes up again."

"I hope what we're doing is right," said Peter.

"Of course it's right," said Bobbie, impatiently. "What else WOULD you do? Leave him here all alone in the dark? That's silly. Just hurry up."

So they hurried.

Bobbie watched their dark shapes and the small light of the little candle with a strange feeling that everything had come to an end. She now knew, she thought, what it felt like to be a nun locked inside a wall. Suddenly she gave herself a little shake.

"Don't be a silly little girl," she said. She was always very cross when anyone else called her a little girl, even if the word before it was not "silly" but "nice" or "good" or "clever." And it was only when she was very cross with herself that she, Roberta, used that expression to Bobbie.

She put the little piece of candle on a broken brick near the boy's feet. Then she opened Peter's knife. It was always difficult to open — you usually needed a coin to do it. This time Bobbie somehow got it open with her thumbnail. She broke the nail, and it hurt a lot. Then she cut the boy's shoelace and got the boot off. She tried to pull off his stocking, but his leg was very swollen and it did not look the right shape. So she cut the stocking open, very slowly and carefully. It was a brown, knitted stocking, and she wondered who had knitted it, and whether it was his mother, and whether his mother was worried about him, and how she would feel when he was brought home with a broken leg. When Bobbie had got the stocking off and saw the poor leg, she felt as though the tunnel was getting darker, and the ground felt unsteady, and nothing seemed quite real.

"SILLY little girl!" said Roberta to Bobbie, and felt better.

"The poor leg," she said to herself. "It should have something soft under it — ah!"

She remembered the day when she and Phyllis had torn up their red flannel petticoats to make danger signals to stop the train and prevent an accident. Her flannel petticoat today was white, but it would be just as soft as a red one. She took it off.

"Oh, how useful flannel petticoats are!" she said. "The person who invented them should have a statue made for them." And she said it out loud, because it seemed that any voice, even her own, would be comforting in that darkness.

"WHAT should have a statue? For whom?" asked the boy, suddenly and very weakly.

"Oh," said Bobbie, "you're better now! Hold tight and try not to let it hurt too much. Now!"

She had folded the petticoat, and lifting his leg, she placed it on the soft folded flannel.

"Please don't faint again," said Bobbie, as he groaned. She quickly wetted her handkerchief with milk and put it over the poor leg.

"Oh, that hurts," cried the boy, pulling back. "Oh — no, it doesn't — it's nice, actually."

"What's your name?" said Bobbie.

"Jim."

"Mine's Bobbie."

"But you're a girl, aren't you?"

"Yes, my full name is Roberta."

"I say — Bobbie."

"Yes?"

"Weren't there more of you here just now?"

"Yes, Peter and Phil — that's my brother and sister. They've gone to get someone to carry you out."

"Those are unusual names. They all sound like boys' names."

"Yes — I wish I was a boy, don't you?"

"I think you're fine as you are."

"I didn't mean that — I meant don't you wish YOU were a boy, but of course you already are without needing to wish."

"You're just as brave as a boy. Why didn't you go with the others?"

"Someone had to stay with you," said Bobbie.

"I'll tell you something, Bobbie," said Jim. "You're wonderful. Shake my hand." He reached out a red-jeseyed arm and Bobbie squeezed his hand.

"I won't shake it," she explained, "because it would shake YOU, and that would shake your poor leg, and that would hurt. Have you got a handkerchief?"

"I don't think so." He felt in his pocket. "Yes, I have. What for?"

She took it and wetted it with milk and put it on his forehead.

"That's nice," he said. "What is it?"

"Milk," said Bobbie. "We don't have any water —"

"You're a very good little nurse," said Jim.

"I do it for Mother sometimes," said Bobbie. "Not with milk, of course, but with perfume, or vinegar and water. Listen, I must put the candle out now, because there might not be enough of the other one to get you out by."

"Good thinking," he said. "You think of everything."

Bobbie blew. The candle went out. You have no idea how completely black the darkness was.

"I say, Bobbie," said a voice through the blackness, "aren't you afraid of the dark?"

"Not — not very much, that is —"

"Let's hold hands," said the boy. And it was really very kind of him, because he was like most boys his age and hated all signs of affection, like kissing and holding hands. He called all those things "mushy stuff" and hated them.

The darkness was easier to bear for Bobbie now that her hand was held in the large rough hand of the boy in the red jersey. And he, holding her small smooth warm hand, was surprised to find that he did not mind it as much as he expected. She tried to talk, to entertain him and keep his mind off his pain. But it is very difficult to keep talking in the dark, and soon they found themselves quiet, broken only by a —

"You all right, Bobbie?"

or an —

"I'm afraid it's hurting you very much, Jim. I AM so sorry."

And it was very cold.

Peter and Phyllis walked along the long path through the tunnel towards the daylight. Candle grease was dripping over Peter's fingers. There were no real accidents, unless you count Phyllis catching her dress on a wire and tearing a long jagged rip in it, and tripping over her shoelace when it came undone, and falling on her hands and knees, which were all scratched.

"This tunnel has no end," said Phyllis — and indeed it did seem very very long.

"Keep going," said Peter. "Everything has an end, and you reach it if you just keep on."

Which is quite true, if you think about it, and a useful thing to remember in difficult times — like when you have measles, or hard maths, or punishments, or those times when you feel bad and think no one will ever love you again.

"Hurray," said Peter suddenly. "There's the end of the tunnel — it looks just like a tiny hole in a piece of black paper, doesn't it?"

The tiny hole got bigger — blue light appeared along the sides of the tunnel. The children could see the gravel path in front of them. The air grew warmer and nicer to breathe. Twenty more steps and they were out in the bright, warm sunshine with green trees on both sides.

Phyllis took a long breath.

"I will never go into a tunnel again as long as I live," she said. "Not even if there are millions of boys inside with red jerseys and broken legs."

"Don't be silly," said Peter, as usual. "You'd HAVE to."

"I think it was very brave and good of me," said Phyllis.

"No, it wasn't," said Peter. "You didn't go because you were brave, but because Bobbie and I aren't cowards. Now, where's the nearest house? You can't see anything here for the trees."

"There's a roof over there," said Phyllis, pointing down the railway line.

"That's the signal box," said Peter. "And you know we're not allowed to speak to signal workers when they're on duty. It's not allowed."

"I'm not nearly as afraid of doing something wrong as I was of going into that tunnel," said Phyllis. "Come on." And she started running along the line. So Peter ran too.

It was very hot in the sunshine, and both children were hot and out of breath by the time they stopped and looked up at the open windows of the signal box, shouting "Hi!" as loud as they could. But no one answered. The signal box was as quiet as an empty room, and the handrail of its steps was hot to the touch as the children quietly climbed up. They looked in at the open door. The signalman was sitting on a chair leaning back against the wall. His head was tilted to one side, and his mouth was open. He was fast asleep.

"Good heavens!" cried Peter. "Wake up!" And he shouted it loudly, because he knew that if a signalman sleeps while on duty, he could lose his job, and also because of the serious danger it causes for trains that need him to tell them when it is safe to travel.

The signalman did not move. Then Peter jumped up to him and shook him. And slowly, yawning and stretching, the man woke up. But the moment he WAS awake he jumped to his feet, put his hands to his head in a panic, as Phyllis said later, and shouted:

"Oh, my goodness — what time is it?"

"Twelve thirteen," said Peter, and indeed it was, according to the white round clock on the wall of the signal box.

The man looked at the clock, ran to the levers, and pulled them this way and that. An electric bell rang — the wires and moving parts creaked, and the man fell back into a chair. He was very pale, and sweat was on his forehead. He was shaking too. The children could see his big hairy hands moving from side to side. He took long slow breaths. Then suddenly he cried, "Thank God, thank God you came when you did — oh, thank God!" and his shoulders began to shake and his face went red again, and he hid it in those big hairy hands.

"Oh, please don't cry," said Phyllis. "It's all right now." And she patted him on one big wide shoulder, while Peter patted the other.

But the signalman seemed very upset, and the children had to comfort him for quite a long time before he found his handkerchief — a red one with purple and white horseshoes on it — and wiped his face and spoke. During all this comforting, a train thundered past.

"I am truly ashamed of myself," said the big signalman when he stopped crying. "Crying like a child." Then suddenly he seemed to get cross. "And what were you doing up here, anyway?" he said. "You know it isn't allowed."

"Yes," said Phyllis. "We knew it was wrong — but I wasn't afraid of doing wrong, and as it turned out, it was the right thing to do. You're not sorry we came."

"God bless you — if you hadn't come —" He stopped and then went on. "It's a disgrace, sleeping on duty. If anyone found out — even now, when no harm has been done."

"No one will find out," said Peter. "We're not the kind of people who tell on others. All the same, you shouldn't sleep on duty — it's dangerous."

"You're not telling me anything I don't know," said the man. "But I can't help it. I knew well enough how it would be. But I couldn't get time off. They couldn't find anyone to take over my shift. I tell you I haven't had ten minutes of sleep in the last five days. My little boy is ill — pneumonia, the Doctor says — and there's no one but me and his little sister to take care of him. That's the situation. The girl needs her sleep. Dangerous? Yes, I know. Now go and report me if you like."

"Of course we won't," said Peter, feeling cross, but Phyllis ignored everything the signalman had said except the first few words.

"You asked us," she said, "to tell you something you don't know. Well, I will. There's a boy in the tunnel over there with a red jersey and a broken leg."

"What did he want to go into the tunnel for, then?" said the man.

"Don't be so cross," said Phyllis kindly. "WE haven't done anything wrong except come and wake you up, and that turned out to be the right thing."

Then Peter told the story of how the boy came to be in the tunnel.

"Well," said the man. "I don't see what I can do. I can't leave the box."

"But you could tell us where to go to find someone who can help," said Phyllis.

"There's Brigden's farm over there — where you can see smoke coming up through the trees," said the man, getting more and more bad-tempered, as Phyllis noticed.

"Well, goodbye then," said Peter.

But the man said, "Wait a minute." He put his hand in his pocket and brought out some money — a lot of small coins and a few bigger ones. He picked out two shillings and held them out.

"Here," he said. "I'll give you this to keep quiet about what happened today."

There was a short, unpleasant pause. Then:

"You ARE a nasty man, aren't you?" said Phyllis.

Peter stepped forward and knocked the man's hand up, so that the coins jumped out and rolled across the floor.

"If anything COULD make me tell on someone, THAT would!" he said. "Come on, Phil." And he walked out of the signal box with his face red.

Phyllis hesitated. Then she took the hand, still held out in a confused way, that had been holding the coins.

"I forgive you," she said, "even if Peter doesn't. You're not thinking clearly, or you would never have done that. I know that not sleeping makes people a bit mad. Mother told me. I hope your little boy gets better soon, and —"

"Come on, Phil," cried Peter.

"I give you my word of honour we will never tell anyone. Let's make up and be friends," said Phyllis, feeling how kind it was of her to try to make peace in a situation that was not her fault.

The signalman bent down and kissed her.

"I really think I am a bit out of my mind," he said. "Now run along home to your Mother. I didn't mean to upset you — there."

So Phil left the hot signal box and followed Peter across the fields to the farm.

When the farm workers, led by Peter and Phyllis and carrying a wooden frame covered with horse blankets, reached the space in the tunnel wall, Bobbie was fast asleep and so was Jim. They had both fallen asleep from the pain, the Doctor said later.

"Where does he live?" the farm manager asked, when Jim had been lifted onto the frame.

"In Northumberland," answered Bobbie.

"I'm at school in Maidbridge," said Jim. "I suppose I have to get back there somehow."

"It seems to me the Doctor should look at him first," said the farm manager.

"Oh, bring him to our house," said Bobbie. "It's only a short way by the road. I'm sure Mother would say we should."

"Will your Ma be happy about you bringing home strangers with broken legs?"

"She took the poor Russian man home herself," said Bobbie. "I know she would say we should."

"All right," said the farm manager. "You should know what your Ma would want. I wouldn't take it on myself to bring him to our place without asking my wife first — and they call me the Master."

"Are you sure your Mother won't mind?" Jim whispered.

"Certain," said Bobbie.

"Then we're taking him up to Three Chimneys?" said the farm manager.

"Of course," said Peter.

"Then my lad will ride up to the Doctor's on his bike and tell him to come there. Now lads, lift him quietly and carefully. One, two, three!"

And so it happened that Mother, writing as fast as she could on a story about a Duchess, a dishonest villain, a secret passage, and a missing will, dropped her pen as her workroom door burst open, and turned to see Bobbie without a hat and with a red face from running.

"Oh, Mother," she cried. "Do come down. We found a boy in a red jersey in the tunnel, and he's broken his leg and they're bringing him home."

"They should take him to the vet," said Mother, with a worried frown. "I really CAN'T have a sick dog here."

"He's not a dog — he's a boy," said Bobbie, laughing and nearly crying at the same time.

"Then he should be taken home to his mother."

"His mother is dead," said Bobbie, "and his father is in Northumberland. Oh, Mother, you will be kind to him? I told him I was sure you would want us to bring him home. You always want to help everyone."

Mother smiled, but she sighed too. It is a lovely thing when your children believe that you are always ready to help anyone who needs it. But it can sometimes be rather difficult when they act on that belief.

"Oh, well," said Mother. "We must do our best."

When Jim was carried in, very white and with tight pale lips, Mother said:

"I am glad you brought him here. Now, Jim, let's get you comfortable in bed before the Doctor comes!"

And Jim, looking at her kind eyes, felt a small, warm, comforting wave of new courage.

"It will hurt quite a bit, won't it?" he said. "I don't want to be a coward. You won't think I'm a coward if I faint again, will you? I really and truly don't do it on purpose. And I do hate to cause you all this trouble."

"Don't worry," said Mother. "It's you who has the trouble, you poor dear — not us."

And she kissed him just as if he had been Peter. "We're happy to have you here — aren't we, Bobbie?"

"Yes," said Bobbie — and she could tell from her Mother's face that she had been right to bring home the hurt boy in the red jersey.
