
   Mother did not get back to her writing at all that day, because the boy in the red jersey whom the children had brought to Three Chimneys had to be put to bed. And then the Doctor came and caused him a lot of pain. Mother was with him all through it, and that made it a little better than it would have been, but it was still very bad, as Mrs. Viney said.

The children sat in the sitting room downstairs and listened to the sound of the Doctor's shoes going backwards and forwards above them on the bedroom floor. And once or twice there was a groan.

"It's horrible," said Bobbie. "Oh, I wish Dr. Forrest would hurry up. Oh, poor Jim!"

"It IS horrible," said Peter, "but it's also very exciting. I wish Doctors didn't make it so difficult to be in the room when they're working. I would very much like to see a bone being set. I believe the bones make a crunching sound."

"Don't!" said both girls at once.

"Nonsense!" said Peter. "How are you going to be Red Cross Nurses, like you were talking about on the way home, if you can't even listen to me talk about bones crunching? You would have to HEAR them crunch on the battlefield — and be covered in blood up to your elbows most likely, and —"

"Stop it!" cried Bobbie, her face going white. "You don't know how strange you're making me feel."

"Me too," said Phyllis, whose face had gone pink.

"Cowards!" said Peter.

"I'm not," said Bobbie. "I helped Mother when your foot was hurt by the rake, and so did Phil — you know we did."

"Well, then!" said Peter. "Look here. It would be very good for you if I talked to you every day for half an hour about broken bones and people's insides, so you could get used to it."

A chair was moved in the room above.

"Listen," said Peter. "That's the bone crunching."

"I really wish you wouldn't," said Phyllis. "Bobbie doesn't like it."

"I'll tell you what they do," said Peter. I am not sure what made him so unpleasant. Perhaps it was because he had been very kind and good all the earlier part of the day, and now he needed a change. This is called reaction. One notices it in oneself sometimes. Sometimes when you have been very good for longer than usual, you are suddenly taken by a strong need to be not good at all. "I'll tell you what they do," said Peter. "They strap the man with the broken bone down so that he cannot move or fight against the doctors, and then someone holds his head, and someone holds his leg — the broken one — and pulls it until the bones fit back together — with a crunching sound, remember! Then they strap it up and — let's play at setting bones!"

"Oh, no!" said Phyllis.

But Bobbie said suddenly: "All right — LET'S! I'll be the doctor, and Phil can be the nurse. You can be the one with the broken bone. We can reach your legs more easily because you don't wear petticoats."

"I'll get the sticks for splints and the bandages," said Peter. "You get the place ready."

The ropes that had tied up the boxes that came from their old home were all in a wooden box in the cellar. When Peter brought in a long messy tangle of them, and two boards for splints, Phyllis was giggling with excitement.

"Right then," he said, and lay down on the long seat, making very dramatic groaning noises.

"Not so loud!" said Bobbie, beginning to wind the rope round him and the seat. "You pull, Phil."

"Not so tight," groaned Peter. "You'll break my other leg."

Bobbie kept working in silence, winding more and more rope around him.

"That's enough," said Peter. "I can't move at all. Oh, my poor leg!" He groaned again.

"SURE you can't move?" asked Bobbie, in a rather strange voice.

"Quite sure," replied Peter. "Shall we pretend it's bleeding a lot or not?" he asked happily.

"YOU can pretend whatever you like," said Bobbie firmly, folding her arms and looking down at him where he lay all wound round and round with rope. "Phil and I are going away. And we won't untie you until you promise never, never to talk to us about blood and wounds unless we say you may. Come, Phil!"

"You beast!" said Peter, struggling. "I'll never promise. I'll shout, and Mother will come."

"Go ahead," said Bobbie. "And tell her why we tied you up! Come on, Phil. No, I'm not a beast, Peter. But you wouldn't stop when we asked you and —"

"Ha," said Peter. "It wasn't even your own idea. You got it from Stalky!"

Bobbie and Phil, walking out quietly and with dignity, met the Doctor at the door. He came in rubbing his hands and looking pleased.

"Well," he said. "That job is done. It's a clean break, and it'll heal well, I have no doubt. A brave young fellow, too — hello! What's all this?"

His eye had fallen on Peter who was lying very still in his ropes on the long seat.

"Playing at prisoners, are you?" he said. But his eyebrows had gone up a little. He had not expected that Bobbie would be playing games while someone upstairs was having a broken bone fixed.

"Oh no!" said Bobbie. "Not at PRISONERS. We were playing at setting bones. Peter is the one with the broken bone, and I was the doctor."

The Doctor frowned.

"Then I must say," he said, quite seriously, "that is a very cold-hearted game. Can't you even imagine what has been happening upstairs? That poor boy, with drops of sweat on his forehead, biting his lips so as not to cry out, and every touch on his leg causing agony and —"

"YOU ought to be tied up," said Phyllis. "You're as bad as —"

"Quiet," said Bobbie. "I'm sorry, but we weren't really cold-hearted."

"I was, I suppose," said Peter, crossly. "All right, Bobbie, don't be all noble and protect me, because I really won't have it. It was just that I kept talking about blood and wounds. I wanted to train them for Red Cross Nurses. And I wouldn't stop when they asked me."

"Well?" said Dr. Forrest, sitting down.

"Well — then I said, 'Let's play at setting bones.' It was all stupid. I knew Bobbie wouldn't. I only said it to annoy her. And then when she said yes, of course I had to do it. And they tied me up. They got the idea from Stalky. And I think it's very unfair."

He managed to roll over and hide his face against the wooden back of the long seat.

"I didn't think anyone would find out except us," said Bobbie, feeling cross at Peter's unspoken criticism. "I never expected you to come in. And hearing about blood and wounds really does make me feel very strange. It was only a joke tying him up. Let me untie you, Pete."

"I don't care if you never untie me," said Peter. "And if that's your idea of a joke —"

"If I were you," said the Doctor, though he was not quite sure what to say, "I would be untied before your Mother comes down. You don't want to worry her right now, do you?"

"I'm not promising anything about not talking about wounds, you know," said Peter, in a very grumpy voice, as Bobbie and Phyllis began to untie the knots.

"I'm very sorry, Pete," Bobbie whispered, leaning close to him as she worked on the big knot under the seat. "But if you only knew how ill you made me feel."

"You've made ME feel pretty ill, I can tell you," Peter replied. Then he shook off the loose ropes and stood up.

"I stopped in," said Dr. Forrest, "to see if one of you would come to the surgery with me. There are some things your Mother will need right away, and I've given my assistant a day off to go to the circus. Will you come, Peter?"

Peter left without a word or a look at his sisters.

The two walked quietly up to the gate that led from the Three Chimneys field to the road. Then Peter said:

"Let me carry your bag. My goodness, it's heavy — what's in it?"

"Oh, knives and small cutting tools and different instruments for treating people. And the bottle of ether. I had to use ether on him, you know — the pain was so bad."

Peter was quiet.

"Tell me all about how you found that boy," said Dr. Forrest.

Peter told him. And then Dr. Forrest told him stories of brave rescues. He was a very interesting man to talk to, as Peter had often said.

Then in the surgery Peter had the best chance he had ever had to look at the Doctor's weighing machine, and his microscope, and his scales and measuring glasses. When all the things were ready that Peter was to take back, the Doctor said suddenly:

"You won't mind me saying something, will you? I would like to tell you something."

"Now comes the telling off," thought Peter, who had been wondering why he had not received one yet.

"Something scientific," added the Doctor.

"Yes," said Peter, playing with the old fossil shell that the Doctor used as a paper weight.

"Well then, you see. Boys and girls are only small men and women. And WE are much tougher and stronger than they are —" (Peter liked the "we." Perhaps the Doctor had known he would.) "— and much stronger, and things that hurt THEM don't hurt US. You know you must never hit a girl —"

"I should think not, of course," muttered Peter, feeling cross.

"Not even if she's your own sister. That's because girls are so much softer and weaker than we are. They have to be, you know," he added, "because if they weren't, it wouldn't be good for babies. And that's why all animals are so kind to the female animals. They never fight them, you know."

"I know," said Peter, interested. "Two male rabbits will fight all day if you let them, but they won't hurt a female."

"No. And even wild animals — lions and elephants — they are very gentle with the female animals. And we have to be too."

"I see," said Peter.

"And their hearts are soft too," the Doctor went on, "and things that we wouldn't think anything of hurt them very much. So a man has to be very careful, not only about hitting, but also about his words. They're very brave, you know," he went on. "Think of Bobbie waiting alone in the tunnel with that poor boy. It's a strange thing — the softer and more easily hurt a woman is, the better she can make herself do what HAS to be done. I've seen some very brave women — your Mother is one," he finished suddenly.

"Yes," said Peter.

"Well, that's all. Excuse me for mentioning it. But nobody is born knowing everything. And you understand what I mean, don't you?"

"Yes," said Peter. "I'm sorry. There!"

"Of course you are! People always are — as soon as they understand. Everyone should learn these facts. Goodbye!"

They shook hands warmly. When Peter came home, his sisters looked at him carefully.

"It's Peace," said Peter, putting the basket down on the table. "Dr. Forrest has been talking science to me. No, it's no use me telling you what he said. You wouldn't understand. But it all comes down to you girls being poor, soft, weak, frightened things like rabbits, so we men just have to put up with you. He called you female animals. Shall I take this up to Mother, or will you?"

"I know what BOYS are," said Phyllis, her face going red. "They're just the nastiest, rudest —"

"They're very brave," said Bobbie, "sometimes."

"Ah, you mean the boy upstairs? I see. Go ahead, Phil — I'll put up with whatever you say because you're a poor, weak, frightened, soft —"

"Not if I pull your hair you won't," said Phyllis, jumping at him.

"He said 'Peace,'" said Bobbie, pulling her away. "Don't you see," she whispered as Peter picked up the basket and walked out with it, "he's really sorry, he just won't say so? Let's say we're sorry."

"It feels a bit too perfect," said Phyllis, doubtfully. "He called us female animals, and soft and frightened —"

"Then let's show him we're not frightened of him thinking we're too perfect," said Bobbie. "And we're no more like animals than he is."

And when Peter came back, still with his chin up in the air, Bobbie said:

"We're sorry we tied you up, Pete."

"I thought you would be," said Peter, very stiff and proud.

This was hard to accept. But —

"Well, so we are," said Bobbie. "Now let both sides be satisfied."

"I did say 'Peace,'" said Peter, in a hurt tone.

"Then let it BE Peace," said Bobbie. "Come on, Phil, let's get the tea. Pete, you could lay the cloth."

"I say," said Phyllis, when peace was really back, which was not until they were washing the cups after tea. "Dr. Forrest didn't REALLY call us female animals, did he?"

"Yes," said Peter firmly. "But I think he meant we men were wild animals too."

"How funny of him!" said Phyllis, breaking a cup.

"May I come in, Mother?" Peter was at the door of Mother's writing room, where Mother sat at her table with two candles in front of her. Their flames looked orange and purple against the clear grey-blue of the sky where a few stars were already appearing.

"Yes, dear," said Mother, not fully paying attention. "Is something wrong?" She wrote a few more words and then put down her pen and began to fold up what she had written. "I was just writing to Jim's grandfather. He lives near here, you know."

"Yes, you said so at tea. That's what I want to say. Do you have to write to him, Mother? Couldn't we keep Jim and not say anything to his family until he's well? It would be such a surprise for them."

"Well, yes," said Mother, laughing. "I think it would."

"You see," Peter went on. "Of course the girls are fine and everything — I'm not saying anything against THEM. But I would like it if I had another boy to talk to sometimes."

"Yes," said Mother. "I know it's dull for you, dear. But I can't help it. Perhaps next year I can send you to school — you'd like that, wouldn't you?"

"I do miss the other boys, quite a bit," Peter said honestly. "But if Jim could stay after his leg was better, we could have great fun."

"I'm sure you would," said Mother. "Well — perhaps he could, but you know, dear, we're not rich. I can't afford to get him everything he'll need. And he must have a nurse."

"Can't you nurse him, Mother? You nurse people so beautifully."

"That's a sweet thing to say, Pete — but I can't do nursing and my writing at the same time. That's the problem."

"Then you MUST send the letter to his grandfather?"

"Of course — and to his schoolmaster too. We sent a telegram to both of them, but I must write as well. They will be very worried."

"I say, Mother, why can't his grandfather pay for a nurse?" Peter suggested. "That would be great. I expect he has lots of money. Grandfathers in books always do."

"Well, this one isn't in a book," said Mother. "So we shouldn't expect too much from him."

"I say," said Peter, thinking out loud. "Wouldn't it be wonderful if we were all IN a book, and you were writing it? Then you could make all kinds of wonderful things happen, and make Jim's leg better at once and all right by tomorrow, and Father come home soon and —"

"Do you miss your Father very much?" Mother asked, rather coldly, Peter thought.

"Very much," said Peter, briefly.

Mother was putting the second letter in its envelope and writing the address.

"You see," Peter went on slowly. "You see, it's not only him BEING Father, but now he's away there's no other man in the house except me — that's why I want Jim to stay so much. Wouldn't you like to be writing that book with us all in it, Mother, and make Daddy come home soon?"

Peter's Mother put her arm around him suddenly and hugged him in silence for a minute. Then she said:

"Don't you think it's rather nice to think that we're in a book that God's writing? If I were writing the book, I might make mistakes. But God knows how to make the story end in just the right way — the way that's best for us."

"Do you really believe that, Mother?" Peter asked quietly.

"Yes," she said. "I do believe it — almost always — except when I'm so sad that I can't believe anything. But even when I can't believe it, I know it's true — and I try to believe. You don't know how I try, Peter. Now take the letters to the post office, and let's not be sad any more. Be brave, be brave! That's the greatest of all good qualities! I imagine Jim will be here for two or three weeks yet."

For the rest of that evening Peter was so very good that Bobbie was afraid he was going to be ill. She felt quite relieved in the morning to find him tying Phyllis's hair to the back of her chair, just as he used to do.

It was not long after breakfast that there was a knock at the door. The children were working hard at cleaning the brass candle holders to mark Jim's visit.

"That'll be the Doctor," said Mother. "I'll go. Close the kitchen door — you're not in a fit state to be seen."

But it wasn't the Doctor. They could tell by the voice and by the sound of the shoes that went upstairs. They did not recognise the shoes, but everyone was certain they had heard the voice before.

There was quite a long wait. The shoes and the voice did not come back down.

"Who on earth can it be?" they kept asking themselves and each other.

"Perhaps," said Peter at last, "Dr. Forrest has been attacked by robbers and left for dead, and this is the man he telegraphed to come in his place. Mrs. Viney said he had someone local to do his work when he went on holiday, didn't you, Mrs. Viney?"

"I did indeed, my dear," said Mrs. Viney from the back kitchen.

"He's probably collapsed," said Phyllis. "No hope for anyone. And this is his man come to break the news to Mother."

"Nonsense!" said Peter, quickly. "Mother wouldn't have taken the man up into Jim's bedroom. Why would she? Listen — the door's opening. Now they'll come down. I'll open the door a crack."

He did.

"It's not being nosy," he replied, feeling cross at Bobbie's shocked expression. "Nobody in their right mind would share secrets on the stairs. And Mother can't have secrets to share with Dr. Forrest's stable man — and you said it was him."

"Bobbie," called Mother's voice.

They opened the kitchen door, and Mother leaned over the stair railing.

"Jim's grandfather has come," she said. "Wash your hands and faces and then you can see him. He wants to see you!" The bedroom door closed again.

"There now!" said Peter. "We never even thought of that! Let's get some hot water, Mrs. Viney. I'm as black as your hat."

The three were indeed dirty, because the stuff you clean brass with does not clean the person doing the cleaning.

They were still busy with soap and a cloth when they heard the shoes and the voice come down the stairs and go into the dining room. And when they were clean, though still damp — because it takes so long to dry your hands properly, and they were very impatient to see the grandfather — they walked into the dining room.

Mother was sitting in the window seat, and in the leather armchair that Father always used to sit in at the old house sat —

THEIR OWN OLD GENTLEMAN!

"Well, I never!" said Peter, even before he said, "How do you do?" He was, as he explained later, too surprised to even remember that there was such a thing as good manners — let alone use them.

"It's our own old gentleman!" said Phyllis.

"Oh, it's you!" said Bobbie. And then they remembered their manners and said, "How do you do?" very nicely.

"This is Jim's grandfather, Mr. —" said Mother, saying the old gentleman's name.

"How wonderful!" said Peter. "That's exactly like something in a book, isn't it, Mother?"

"It is, rather," said Mother, smiling. "Things do happen in real life that are a bit like books, sometimes."

"I am so very glad it IS you," said Phyllis. "When you think of all the old gentlemen there are in the world — it could have been almost anyone."

"I say, though," said Peter. "You're not going to take Jim away, are you?"

"Not yet," said the old gentleman. "Your Mother has very kindly agreed to let him stay here. I thought of sending a nurse, but your Mother kindly says she will nurse him herself."

"But what about her writing?" said Peter, before anyone could stop him. "There won't be anything to eat if Mother doesn't write."

"That's all right," said Mother, quickly.

The old gentleman looked very kindly at Mother.

"I see," he said. "You trust your children and tell them things."

"Of course," said Mother.

"Then I may tell them about our little arrangement," he said. "Your Mother, my dears, has agreed to stop writing for a little while and become the head nurse of my hospital."

"Oh!" said Phyllis, confused. "And will we have to leave Three Chimneys and the Railway and everything?"

"No, no, darling," said Mother, quickly.

"The hospital is called Three Chimneys Hospital," said the old gentleman. "And my unlucky Jim is the only patient, and I hope he will continue to be so. Your Mother will be the head nurse, and there will be a housemaid and a cook — until Jim is well."

"And then will Mother go on writing again?" asked Peter.

"We shall see," said the old gentleman, with a quick look at Bobbie. "Perhaps something nice may happen and she won't have to."

"I love my writing," said Mother, very quickly.

"I know," said the old gentleman. "Don't worry, I'm not trying to change anything. But one never knows. Very wonderful and beautiful things do happen, don't they? And we spend most of our lives hoping for them. May I come again to see the boy?"

"Of course," said Mother. "And I don't know how to thank you for making it possible for me to nurse him. Dear boy!"

"He kept calling out 'Mother, Mother' in the night," said Phyllis. "I woke up twice and heard him."

"He didn't mean me," said Mother, quietly to the old gentleman. "That's why I wanted so much to keep him."

The old gentleman stood up.

"I'm so glad you're going to keep him, Mother," said Peter.

"Take care of your Mother, my dears," said the old gentleman. "She is a woman in a million."

"Yes, isn't she?" whispered Bobbie.

"God bless her," said the old gentleman, taking both Mother's hands. "God bless her! Yes, and she shall be blessed. Dear me, where's my hat? Will Bobbie come with me to the gate?"

At the gate he stopped and said:

"You're a good child, my dear. I got your letter. But it wasn't needed. When I read about your Father's case in the newspapers at the time, I had doubts about the verdict. And ever since I've known who you were, I've been trying to find things out. I haven't done very much yet. But I have hopes, my dear — I have hopes."

"Oh!" said Bobbie, with a catch in her voice.

"Yes — I may say great hopes. But keep your secret a little longer. It would not do to upset your Mother with a hope that might not work out, would it?"

"Oh, but it isn't a false hope!" said Bobbie. "I KNOW you can do it. I knew you could when I wrote. It isn't going to fail, is it?"

"No," he said. "I don't think so, or I wouldn't have told you. And I think you deserve to know that there IS a hope."

"And you don't think Father did it, do you? Oh, please say you don't think he did."

"My dear," he said. "I am perfectly CERTAIN he didn't."

It may have been a hope that could fail, but it was a very bright one that stayed warm in Bobbie's heart, and in the days that followed it lit up her little face like a lantern lit from within.
