

  They were not railway children at the beginning. I don't think they ever thought about railways, except as a way to get to Maskelyne and Cook's shows, the Pantomime, the Zoo, and Madame Tussaud's. They were just normal children who lived in the suburbs, and they lived with their Father and Mother in a normal red-brick house with coloured glass in the front door, a tiled hall, a bathroom with hot and cold water, electric bells, French windows, and a lot of white paint — everything a modern house should have.

There were three of them. Roberta was the oldest. Mothers never have favourites, of course, but if their Mother HAD had a favourite, it might have been Roberta. Next was Peter, who wanted to be an Engineer when he grew up. The youngest was Phyllis, who always meant very well.

Mother did not spend all her time visiting boring ladies or sitting at home waiting for boring ladies to visit her. She was almost always there, ready to play with the children, read to them, and help them with their school work. She also wrote stories for them while they were at school, and read them aloud after tea. She always made funny poems for their birthdays and for other special times, like when the new kittens were named, or when the doll's house was given new furniture, or when they were getting better after the mumps.

These three lucky children always had everything they needed: pretty clothes, warm fires, a lovely nursery full of toys, and a Mother Goose wallpaper. They had a kind and happy nursemaid, and a dog called James who was completely theirs. They also had a Father who was just perfect — never angry, never unfair, and always ready for a game. If he ever was NOT ready, he always had a very good reason, and he explained it to the children in such an interesting and funny way that they felt sure he could not help it.

You will think they should have been very happy. And they were — but they did not know HOW happy until the pretty life in the Red Villa ended, and they had to live a very different life.

The terrible change came very suddenly.

Peter had a birthday — his tenth. Among his presents was a toy engine that was more perfect than you could ever dream of. The other presents were lovely, but the Engine was even more special than the others.

Its magic lasted perfectly for exactly three days. Then, because of Peter's lack of experience or Phyllis's good intentions which had been a little too enthusiastic, or some other reason, the Engine suddenly went off with a bang. James the dog was so frightened that he went outside and did not come back all day. All the little Noah's Ark people who were in the tender were broken into pieces, but nothing else was hurt except the poor little engine and Peter's feelings. The others said he cried over it — but of course boys of ten do not cry, no matter how terrible things are. He said his eyes were red because he had a cold. This turned out to be true, although Peter did not know it when he said it. The next day he had to go to bed and stay there. Mother started to worry that he might be getting measles, when suddenly he sat up in bed and said:

"I hate porridge water — I hate barley water — I hate bread and milk. I want to get up and have something REAL to eat."

"What would you like?" Mother asked.

"A pigeon pie," said Peter, eagerly, "a large pigeon pie. A very large one."

So Mother asked Cook to make a large pigeon pie. The pie was made. When it was made, it was cooked. When it was cooked, Peter ate some of it. After that his cold got better. Mother made a poem to cheer him up while the pie was being made. It began by saying what an unlucky but good boy Peter was, then it went on:

      He had an engine that he loved
        With all his heart and soul,
      And if he had a wish on earth
        It was to keep it whole.

      One day—my friends, prepare your minds;
        I'm coming to the worst—
      Quite suddenly a screw went mad,
        And then the boiler burst!

      With gloomy face he picked it up
        And took it to his Mother,
      Though even he could not suppose
        That she could make another;

      For those who perished on the line
        He did not seem to care,
      His engine being more to him
        Than all the people there.

      And now you see the reason why
        Our Peter has been ill:
      He soothes his soul with pigeon-pie
        His gnawing grief to kill.

      He wraps himself in blankets warm
        And sleeps in bed till late,
      Determined thus to overcome
        His miserable fate.

      And if his eyes are rather red,
        His cold must just excuse it:
      Offer him pie; you may be sure
        He never will refuse it.
  ------------------------------------



Father had been away in the country for three or four days. Now all of Peter's hopes for fixing his broken Engine were on his Father, because Father was wonderfully clever with his hands. He could fix all kinds of things. He had often acted as a vet for the wooden rocking-horse. Once he had saved its life when everyone had given up hope, and even the carpenter said he could not do anything. And it was Father who fixed the doll's cradle when no one else could. With a little glue, some pieces of wood, and a penknife, he made all the Noah's Ark animals as strong on their feet as before — if not stronger.

Peter, with great unselfishness, said nothing about his Engine until after Father had eaten dinner and smoked his after-dinner cigar. The unselfishness was Mother's idea — but it was Peter who carried it out. And it needed a lot of patience, too.

At last Mother said to Father, "Now, dear, if you're quite rested and quite comfortable, we want to tell you about the great railway accident and ask your advice."

"All right," said Father, "go ahead!"

So Peter told the sad story and brought what was left of the Engine.

"Hm," said Father, after he had looked over the Engine very carefully.

The children held their breath.

"Is there NO hope?" said Peter, in a quiet, unsteady voice.

"Hope? Of course! Lots of it," said Father cheerfully, "but it will need more than hope — a bit of brazing, or some solder, and a new valve. I think we'd better save it for a rainy day. I mean, I'll give up Saturday afternoon to it, and you can all help me."

"CAN girls help to fix engines?" Peter asked doubtfully.

"Of course they can. Girls are just as clever as boys, and don't you forget it! How would you like to be an engine driver, Phil?"

"My face would always be dirty, wouldn't it?" said Phyllis, in a not very excited tone, "and I think I would break something."

"I would love it," said Roberta — "do you think I could when I'm grown up, Daddy? Or even a stoker?"

"You mean a fireman," said Daddy, pulling and working on the engine. "Well, if you still want it when you're grown up, we'll see about making you a fire-woman. I remember when I was a boy—"

Just then there was a knock at the front door.

"Who on earth!" said Father. "An Englishman's house is his castle, of course, but I do wish they built semi-detached houses with moats and drawbridges."

Ruth — she was the parlour maid and had red hair — came in and said that two gentlemen wanted to see the master.

"I've shown them into the Library, Sir," she said.

"I expect it's the subscription to the Vicar's testimonial," said Mother, "or else it's the choir holiday fund. Get rid of them quickly, dear. It does break up an evening so, and it's nearly the children's bedtime."

But Father did not seem able to get rid of the gentlemen quickly at all.

"I wish we HAD got a moat and drawbridge," said Roberta; "then, when we didn't want people, we could just pull up the drawbridge and no one else could get in. I expect Father will have forgotten about when he was a boy if they stay much longer."

Mother tried to make the time pass by telling them a new fairy story about a Princess with green eyes, but it was difficult because they could hear the voices of Father and the gentlemen in the Library, and Father's voice sounded louder and different from the voice he usually used with people who came about testimonials and holiday funds.

Then the Library bell rang, and everyone breathed with relief.

"They're going now," said Phyllis; "he's rung to have them shown out."

But instead of showing anyone out, Ruth showed herself in, and she looked strange, the children thought.

"Please, ma'am," she said, "the Master wants you to just step into the study. He looks like death, ma'am; I think he's had bad news. You'd best prepare yourself for the worst, ma'am — perhaps it's a death in the family or a bank gone bust or—"

"That'll do, Ruth," said Mother gently; "you can go."

Then Mother went into the Library. There was more talking. Then the bell rang again, and Ruth called a cab. The children heard footsteps go out and down the steps. The cab drove away, and the front door closed. Then Mother came in. Her dear face was as white as her lace collar, and her eyes looked very big and bright. Her mouth looked like just a line of pale red — her lips were thin and not their normal shape at all.

"It's bedtime," she said. "Ruth will put you to bed."

"But you promised we could stay up late tonight because Father's come home," said Phyllis.

"Father's been called away — on business," said Mother. "Come, darlings, go at once."

They kissed her and went. Roberta stopped to give Mother an extra hug and whisper:

"It wasn't bad news, Mammy, was it? Is anyone dead — or—"

"Nobody's dead — no," said Mother, and she almost seemed to push Roberta away. "I can't tell you anything tonight, my pet. Go, dear, go NOW."

So Roberta went.

Ruth brushed the girls' hair and helped them to undress. (Mother almost always did this herself.) When she had turned off the gas light and left them, she found Peter, still dressed, waiting on the stairs.

"I say, Ruth, what's happening?" he asked.

"Don't ask me questions and I won't tell you lies," the red-haired Ruth replied. "You'll know soon enough."

Late that night Mother came up and kissed all three children as they lay asleep. But Roberta was the only one that the kiss woke up, and she lay very still and said nothing.

"If Mother doesn't want us to know she's been crying," she said to herself as she heard through the dark the catching of her Mother's breath, "we WON'T know it. That's all."

When they came down to breakfast the next morning, Mother had already gone out.

"To London," Ruth said, and left them to their breakfast.

"Something awful is the matter," said Peter, breaking his egg. "Ruth told me last night we would know soon enough."

"Did you ASK her?" said Roberta, with scorn.

"Yes, I did!" said Peter, angrily. "If you could go to bed without caring whether Mother was worried or not, I couldn't. So there."

"I don't think we should ask the servants things Mother doesn't tell us," said Roberta.

"That's right, Miss Goody-goody," said Peter, "go on preaching."

"I'M not goody," said Phyllis, "but I think Bobbie's right this time."

"Of course. She always is. In her own opinion," said Peter.

"Oh, DON'T!" cried Roberta, putting down her egg spoon; "don't let's be horrible to each other. I'm sure something terrible is happening. Don't let's make it worse!"

"Who started it, I'd like to know?" said Peter.

Roberta made an effort, and answered:—

"I did, I suppose, but—"

"Well, then," said Peter, as if he had won. But before he went to school he thumped his sister between the shoulders and told her to cheer up.

The children came home for one o'clock dinner, but Mother was not there. And she was not there at tea time.

It was nearly seven before she came in, looking so ill and tired that the children felt they could not ask her any questions. She sank into an armchair. Phyllis took the long pins out of her hat, while Roberta took off her gloves, and Peter unfastened her walking shoes and brought her soft velvety slippers.

When she had had a cup of tea, and Roberta had put eau-de-Cologne on her poor aching head, Mother said:—

"Now, my darlings, I want to tell you something. Those men last night did bring very bad news, and Father will be away for some time. I am very worried about it, and I want you all to help me, and not to make things harder for me."

"As if we would!" said Roberta, holding Mother's hand against her face.

"You can help me very much," said Mother, "by being good and happy and not quarrelling when I'm away" — Roberta and Peter exchanged guilty looks — "for I shall have to be away a good deal."

"We won't quarrel. We truly won't," said everybody. And they meant it, too.

"Then," Mother went on, "I want you not to ask me any questions about this trouble; and not to ask anybody else any questions."

Peter moved nervously and shuffled his boots on the carpet.

"You'll promise this, too, won't you?" said Mother.

"I did ask Ruth," said Peter, suddenly. "I'm very sorry, but I did."

"And what did she say?"

"She said I would know soon enough."

"It isn't necessary for you to know anything about it," said Mother; "it's about business, and you never understand business, do you?"

"No," said Roberta; "is it something to do with the Government?" For Father worked in a Government Office.

"Yes," said Mother. "Now it's bedtime, my darlings. And don't YOU worry. It'll all come right in the end."

"Then don't YOU worry either, Mother," said Phyllis, "and we'll all be as good as gold."

Mother sighed and kissed them.

"We'll begin being good first thing tomorrow morning," said Peter, as they went upstairs.

"Why not NOW?" said Roberta.

"There's nothing to be good ABOUT now, silly," said Peter.

"We might begin to try to FEEL good," said Phyllis, "and not call names."

"Who's calling names?" said Peter. "Bobbie knows well enough that when I say 'silly,' it's just the same as if I said Bobbie."

"WELL," said Roberta.

"No, I don't mean what you think. I mean it's just a — what does Father call it? — a word of endearment! Good night."

The girls folded up their clothes more neatly than usual — which was the only way of being good that they could think of.

"I say," said Phyllis, smoothing out her pinafore, "you used to say it was so dull — nothing happening, like in books. Now something HAS happened."

"I never wanted things to happen to make Mother unhappy," said Roberta. "Everything's perfectly horrible."

Everything continued to be perfectly horrible for some weeks.

Mother was nearly always out. Meals were dull and not very clean. The between maid was sent away, and Aunt Emma came to stay. Aunt Emma was much older than Mother. She was going abroad to be a governess. She was very busy getting her clothes ready, and they were very ugly, dull clothes, and she had them always lying about, and the sewing machine seemed to go on and on all day and most of the night. Aunt Emma believed in keeping children in their proper places. And they more than returned the feeling. Their idea of Aunt Emma's proper place was anywhere they were not. So they saw very little of her. They preferred the company of the servants, who were more amusing. Cook, if she was in a good mood, could sing funny songs, and the housemaid, if she was not annoyed with you, could imitate a hen that has laid an egg, a champagne bottle being opened, and could meow like two cats fighting. The servants never told the children what the bad news was that the gentlemen had brought to Father. But they kept hinting that they could tell a great deal if they wanted to — and this was not comfortable.

One day when Peter had made a trick over the bathroom door, and it had worked beautifully when Ruth walked through, that red-haired parlour maid caught him and slapped his ears.

"You'll come to a bad end," she said furiously, "you nasty little trouble-maker! If you don't behave yourself, you'll go where your precious Father's gone, so I tell you straight!"

Roberta told this to her Mother, and the next day Ruth was sent away.

Then came the time when Mother came home and went to bed and stayed there two days, and the Doctor came, and the children crept miserably around the house and wondered if the world was coming to an end.

Mother came downstairs one morning for breakfast, very pale and with lines on her face that had not been there before. And she smiled, as well as she could, and said:—

"Now, my pets, everything is settled. We're going to leave this house and go and live in the country. Such a sweet little white house. I know you'll love it."

A busy week of packing followed — not just packing clothes, like when you go to the seaside, but packing chairs and tables, covering their tops with cloth and their legs with straw.

All sorts of things were packed that you don't pack when you go to the seaside. Crockery, blankets, candlesticks, carpets, beds, saucepans, and even fireplace tools.

The house was like a furniture warehouse. I think the children enjoyed it very much. Mother was very busy, but not too busy now to talk to them and read to them, and even to make a little poem for Phyllis to cheer her up when she fell down with a screwdriver and cut her hand.

"Aren't you going to pack this, Mother?" Roberta asked, pointing to the beautiful cabinet with red tortoiseshell and brass decoration.

"We can't take everything," said Mother.

"But we seem to be taking all the ugly things," said Roberta.

"We're taking the useful ones," said Mother; "we've got to pretend to be Poor for a bit, my darling."

When all the ugly useful things had been packed up and taken away in a van by men in green aprons, the two girls and Mother and Aunt Emma slept in the two spare rooms where the furniture was all pretty. All their beds had gone. A bed was made up for Peter on the drawing room sofa.

"I say, this is fun," he said, wriggling with joy, as Mother tucked him in. "I do like moving! I wish we moved once a month."

Mother laughed.

"I don't!" she said. "Good night, Peterkin."

As she turned away, Roberta saw her face. She never forgot it.

"Oh, Mother," she whispered to herself as she got into bed, "how brave you are! How I love you! Imagine being brave enough to laugh when you're feeling like THAT!"

Next day boxes were filled, and more boxes; and then late in the afternoon a cab came to take them to the station.

Aunt Emma saw them off. They felt that THEY were seeing HER off, and they were glad of it.

"But, oh, those poor little foreign children that she's going to teach!" whispered Phyllis. "I wouldn't be them for anything!"

At first they enjoyed looking out of the window, but when it grew dark they grew sleepier and sleepier, and no one knew how long they had been in the train when they were woken by Mother gently shaking them and saying:—

"Wake up, dears. We're there."

They woke up, cold and sad, and stood shivering on the cold platform while the bags were taken out of the train. Then the engine, puffing and blowing, started moving again, and pulled the train away. The children watched the tail-lights of the guard's van disappear into the darkness.

This was the first train the children saw on that railway which would soon become so very dear to them. They did not guess then how much they would love the railway, and how quickly it would become the centre of their new life, or what wonderful things and changes it would bring to them. They only shivered and sneezed and hoped the walk to the new house would not be long. Peter's nose was colder than he ever remembered it being. Roberta's hat was tilted, and the elastic felt tighter than usual. Phyllis's shoelaces had come undone.

"Come," said Mother, "we've got to walk. There aren't any taxis here."

The walk was dark and muddy. The children stumbled a little on the rough road, and once Phyllis accidentally fell into a puddle and was picked up damp and unhappy. There were no street lamps on the road, and the road went uphill. The cart went very slowly, and they followed the sound of its wheels. As their eyes got used to the darkness, they could see the pile of boxes swaying dimly in front of them.

A long gate had to be opened for the cart to pass through, and after that the road seemed to go across fields — and now it went downhill. After a while a great dark shape appeared to the right.

"There's the house," said Mother. "I wonder why she's shut the shutters."

"Who's SHE?" asked Roberta.

"The woman I hired to clean the place, arrange the furniture, and get supper ready."

There was a low wall, and trees inside.

"That's the garden," said Mother.

"It looks more like a frying pan full of black cabbages," said Peter.

The cart went on along by the garden wall, and round to the back of the house, and there it moved onto cobblestones and stopped at the back door.

There was no light in any of the windows.

Everyone knocked at the door, but no one came.

The man who drove the cart said he expected Mrs. Viney had gone home.

"You see your train was that late," said he.

"But she's got the key," said Mother. "What do we do?"

"Oh, she'll have left it under the doorstep," said the cart man; "folks do around here." He took the lantern off his cart and bent down.

"Ah, here it is, right enough," he said.

He unlocked the door and went in and put his lantern on the table.

"Have you got a candle?" said he.

"I don't know where anything is." Mother spoke a little less cheerfully than usual.

He struck a match. There was a candle on the table, and he lit it. By its thin little light the children saw a large bare kitchen with a stone floor. There were no curtains, no rug. The kitchen table from home stood in the middle of the room. The chairs were in one corner, and the pots, pans, brooms, and crockery in another. There was no fire, and the black fireplace showed cold, dead ashes.

As the cart man turned to go out after he had brought in the boxes, there was a rustling, scurrying sound that seemed to come from inside the walls of the house.

"Oh, what's that?" cried the girls.

"It's only the rats," said the cart man. And he went away and shut the door, and the draught from it blew out the candle.

"Oh, dear," said Phyllis, "I wish we hadn't come!" and she knocked a chair over.

"ONLY the rats!" said Peter, in the dark.
