

   "What fun!" said Mother, in the dark, feeling for the matches on the table. "How frightened the poor mice were — I don't believe they were rats at all."

She struck a match and relit the candle, and everyone looked at each other by its small, flickering light.

"Well," she said, "you've often wanted something to happen, and now it has. This is quite an adventure, isn't it? I told Mrs. Viney to get us some bread and butter, and meat and things, and to have supper ready. I suppose she's set it in the dining room. So let's go and see."

The dining room opened out of the kitchen. It looked much darker than the kitchen when they went in with the one candle. Because the kitchen was whitewashed, but the dining room was dark wood from floor to ceiling, and across the ceiling there were heavy black beams. There was a messy jumble of dusty furniture — the breakfast room furniture from the old home where they had lived all their lives. It seemed a very long time ago, and very far away.

There was the table, certainly, and there were chairs, but there was no supper.

"Let's look in the other rooms," said Mother; and they looked. And in each room there was the same kind of messy, half-arranged furniture, and fireplace tools and crockery, and all sorts of odd things on the floor, but there was nothing to eat. Even in the pantry there were only a rusty cake tin and a broken plate with whitening mixed in it.

"What a horrible old woman!" said Mother; "she's just walked off with the money and not got us anything to eat at all."

"Then won't we have any supper at all?" asked Phyllis, upset, stepping back onto a soap dish that cracked under her foot.

"Oh, yes," said Mother, "only it'll mean unpacking one of those big boxes that we put in the cellar. Phil, do mind where you're walking, there's a dear. Peter, hold the light."

The cellar door opened from the kitchen. There were five wooden steps going down. It wasn't a proper cellar, the children thought, because its ceiling was as high as the kitchen's. A meat rack hung under its ceiling. There was wood in it, and coal. Also the big boxes.

Peter held the candle, all on one side, while Mother tried to open the big packing case. It was very firmly nailed shut.

"Where's the hammer?" asked Peter.

"That's just it," said Mother. "I'm afraid it's inside the box. But there's a coal shovel — and there's the kitchen poker."

And with these she tried to get the case open.

"Let me do it," said Peter, thinking he could do it better himself. Everyone thinks this when they see another person stirring a fire, or opening a box, or untying a knot in a piece of string.

"You'll hurt your hands, Mammy," said Roberta; "let me."

"I wish Father was here," said Phyllis; "he'd get it open in two shakes. What are you kicking me for, Bobbie?"

"I wasn't," said Roberta.

Just then the first of the long nails in the packing case began to come out with a scraping sound. Then a piece of wood was lifted and then another, until all four stood up with the long nails in them shining sharply like iron teeth in the candlelight.

"Hooray!" said Mother; "here are some candles — the very first thing! You girls go and light them. You'll find some saucers and things. Just drop a little candle grease in the saucer and stick the candle upright in it."

"How many shall we light?"

"As many as you like," said Mother, happily. "The great thing is to be cheerful. Nobody can be cheerful in the dark except owls and dormice."

So the girls lit candles. The head of the first match flew off and stuck to Phyllis's finger, but as Roberta said, it was only a little burn, and she might have had to be a Roman martyr and be burned all over if she had lived in the days when those things were fashionable.

Then, when the dining room was lit by fourteen candles, Roberta fetched coal and wood and lit a fire.

"It's very cold for May," she said, feeling how grown-up it was to say that.

The firelight and the candlelight made the dining room look very different, because now you could see that the dark walls were wood, carved here and there into little wreaths and loops.

The girls quickly tidied the room, which meant putting the chairs against the wall and piling all the odd things into a corner and partly hiding them with the big leather armchair that Father used to sit in after dinner.

"Bravo!" cried Mother, coming in with a tray full of things. "This is something like! I'll just get a tablecloth and then—"

The tablecloth was in a box with a proper lock that was opened with a key, not a shovel, and when the cloth was spread on the table, a real feast was laid out on it.

Everyone was very, very tired, but everyone cheered up at the sight of the funny and delightful supper. There were biscuits, plain and Marie kind, sardines, preserved ginger, cooking raisins, candied peel, and marmalade.

"What a good thing Aunt Emma packed up all the leftover things from the Store cupboard," said Mother. "Now, Phil, DON'T put the marmalade spoon in among the sardines."

"No, I won't, Mother," said Phyllis, and put it down among the Marie biscuits.

"Let's drink Aunt Emma's health," said Roberta, suddenly; "what would we have done if she hadn't packed up these food things? Here's to Aunt Emma!"

And the toast was drunk in ginger wine and water, out of willow-patterned teacups, because the glasses couldn't be found.

They all felt they had been a little unfair to Aunt Emma. She wasn't a nice cuddly person like Mother, but after all, it was she who had thought of packing up the leftover food.

It was Aunt Emma, too, who had aired all the sheets ready; and the men who had moved the furniture had put the beds together, so the beds were soon made.

"Good night, chickies," said Mother. "I'm sure there aren't any rats. But I'll leave my door open, and then if a mouse comes, you only need to scream, and I'll come and tell it exactly what I think of it."

Then she went to her own room. Roberta woke up to hear the little travelling clock chime two. It sounded like a church clock far away, she always thought. And she heard, too, Mother still moving about in her room.

Next morning Roberta woke Phyllis by gently pulling her hair, but firmly enough to do the job.

"What?" asked Phyllis, still almost completely asleep.

"Wake up! Wake up!" said Roberta. "We're in the new house — don't you remember? No servants or anything. Let's get up and start being helpful. We'll just creep downstairs as quietly as mice, and have everything beautiful before Mother gets up. I've woken Peter. He'll be dressed as soon as we are."

So they dressed quietly and quickly. Of course there was no water in their room, so when they got down they washed as much as they thought was necessary under the spout of the pump in the yard. One pumped and the other washed. It was splashy but fun.

"It's much more fun than washing in a basin," said Roberta. "Look how sparkly the weeds are between the stones, and the moss on the roof — oh, and the flowers!"

The roof of the back kitchen sloped down quite low. It was made of thatch and it had moss on it, and stonecrop and wallflowers, and even a group of purple flag flowers at the far corner.

"This is far, far, far and away prettier than Edgecombe Villa," said Phyllis. "I wonder what the garden's like."

"We mustn't think about the garden yet," said Roberta, with serious energy. "Let's go in and begin to work."

They lit the fire and put the kettle on, and they arranged the crockery for breakfast. They couldn't find all the right things, but a glass ashtray made an excellent salt holder, and a fairly new baking tin seemed as if it would do to put bread on — if they had any.

When there seemed to be nothing more they could do, they went out again into the fresh bright morning.

"We'll go into the garden now," said Peter. But somehow they couldn't find the garden. They went round the house and round the house. The yard was at the back, and across it were stables and outbuildings. On the other three sides the house stood simply in a field, without any garden between it and the short smooth grass. And yet they had certainly seen the garden wall the night before.

It was hilly country. Down below they could see the line of the railway and the dark opening of a tunnel. The station was out of sight. There was a great bridge with tall arches going across one end of the valley.

"Never mind the garden," said Peter; "let's go down and look at the railway. There might be trains passing."

"We can see them from here," said Roberta, slowly; "let's sit down a bit."

So they all sat down on a great flat grey stone that had pushed itself up out of the grass. It was one of many that lay about on the hillside, and when Mother came out to look for them at eight o'clock, she found them deeply asleep in a happy, sun-warmed group.

They had made an excellent fire and had put the kettle on it at about half past five. So by eight the fire had gone out a while ago, the water had all boiled away, and the bottom of the kettle was burned through. Also, they had not thought of washing the crockery before setting the table.

"But it doesn't matter — the cups and saucers, I mean," said Mother. "Because I've found another room — I had completely forgotten there was one. And it's magic! And I've boiled the water for tea in a saucepan."

The forgotten room opened out of the kitchen. In all the confusion and half darkness the night before, its door had been mistaken for a cupboard's. It was a little square room, and on its table, all nicely set out, was a joint of cold roast beef, with bread, butter, cheese, and a pie.

"Pie for breakfast!" cried Peter; "how absolutely wonderful!"

"It isn't pigeon pie," said Mother; "it's only apple. Well, this is the supper we should have had last night. And there was a note from Mrs. Viney. Her son-in-law has broken his arm, and she had to get home early. She's coming this morning at ten."

That was a wonderful breakfast. It is unusual to start the day with cold apple pie, but all the children said they would rather have it than meat.

"You see, it's more like dinner than breakfast to us," said Peter, passing his plate for more, "because we were up so early."

The day passed in helping Mother to unpack and arrange things. Six small legs quite ached with all the running about while their owners carried clothes and crockery and all sorts of things to their proper places. It was not until quite late in the afternoon that Mother said:—

"There! That'll do for today. I'll lie down for an hour, so I'm as fresh as a daisy by supper time."

Then they all looked at each other. Each of the three expressive faces showed the same thought. That thought was double, and was like the little pieces of information in a knowledge book — a question and an answer.

Q. Where shall we go?

A. To the railway.

So to the railway they went, and as soon as they started they saw where the garden had been hiding. It was right behind the stables, and it had a high wall all round.

"Oh, never mind the garden now!" cried Peter. "Mother told me this morning where it was. It'll still be there tomorrow. Let's get to the railway."

The way to the railway was all downhill over smooth short grass with here and there gorse bushes and grey and yellow rocks sticking out like pieces of fruit on top of a cake.

The way ended in a steep run and a wooden fence — and there was the railway with the shining rails and the telegraph wires and posts and signals.

They all climbed to the top of the fence, and then suddenly there was a rumbling sound that made them look along the line to the right, where the dark mouth of a tunnel opened in the face of a rocky cliff. The next moment a train rushed out of the tunnel with a shriek and a snort, and slid noisily past them. They felt the rush of air as it passed, and the small stones on the line jumped and rattled under it as it went by.

"Oh!" said Roberta, taking a long breath; "it was like a great dragon tearing by. Did you feel it fan us with its hot wings?"

"I suppose a dragon's lair might look very like that tunnel from the outside," said Phyllis.

But Peter said:—

"I never thought we should ever get as close to a train as this. It's the most exciting thing!"

"Better than toy engines, isn't it?" said Roberta.

(I am tired of calling Roberta by her name. I don't see why I should. No one else did. Everyone else called her Bobbie, and I don't see why I shouldn't.)

"I don't know; it's different," said Peter. "It seems so strange to see ALL of a train. It's awfully tall, isn't it?"

"We've always seen them cut in half by platforms," said Phyllis.

"I wonder if that train was going to London," Bobbie said. "London is where Father is."

"Let's go down to the station and find out," said Peter.

So they went.

They walked along the edge of the line and heard the telegraph wires humming over their heads. When you are in the train, it seems such a short distance between post and post, and one after another the posts seem to catch up the wires almost faster than you can count them. But when you have to walk, the posts seem far apart.

But the children got to the station at last.

Never before had any of them been at a station, except to catch trains — or perhaps wait for them — and always with grown-ups, who were not themselves interested in stations, except as places they wanted to leave.

Never before had they passed close enough to a signal box to notice the wires and hear the mysterious "ping, ping," followed by the strong, firm clicking of machinery.

The very sleepers on which the rails lay were a wonderful path to walk along — just far enough apart to be stepping stones in a game of rushing rivers quickly invented by Bobbie.

Then to arrive at the station, not through the booking office, but in a free, adventurous way by the sloping end of the platform. This in itself was wonderful.

Wonderful, too, it was to peep into the porters' room, where the lamps are, and the Railway almanac on the wall, and one porter half asleep behind a paper.

There were many crossing lines at the station; some of them just ran into a yard and stopped short, as though they were tired of work and had retired for good. Trucks stood on the rails here, and on one side was a great pile of coal — not a loose heap like in your coal cellar, but a kind of solid building of coals with large square blocks of coal on the outside used just like bricks, built up until the heap looked like the picture of the Cities of the Plain in Bible stories. There was a line of whitewash near the top of the coal wall.

When the Porter came out of his room at the twice-repeated ringing of a bell over the station door, Peter said, "How do you do?" in his best manner, and quickly asked what the white mark was on the coal for.

"To mark how much coal there is," said the Porter, "so we know if anyone takes any. So don't you go off with any in your pockets, young gentleman!"

This seemed at the time a merry joke, and Peter felt at once that the Porter was a friendly type with no nonsense about him. But later the words came back to Peter with a new meaning.

Have you ever gone into a farmhouse kitchen on a baking day, and seen the great pot of dough set by the fire to rise? If you have, and if you were young enough to be interested in everything you saw, you will remember that you found yourself quite unable to resist the temptation to poke your finger into the soft round of dough that curved inside the pan like a giant mushroom. And you will remember that your finger made a dent in the dough, and that slowly, but quite surely, the dent disappeared, and the dough looked just as it did before you touched it. Unless, of course, your hand was extra dirty, in which case there would naturally be a little black mark.

Well, it was just like that with the sadness the children had felt at Father going away, and at Mother being so unhappy. It made a deep impression, but the impression did not last long.

They soon got used to being without Father, although they did not forget him. And they got used to not going to school, and to seeing very little of Mother, who was now almost all day shut up in her upstairs room writing, writing, writing. She used to come down at teatime and read aloud the stories she had written. They were lovely stories.

The rocks and hills and valleys and trees, the canal, and above all the railway, were so new and so perfectly lovely that the memory of the old life in the villa began to feel almost like a dream.

Mother had told them more than once that they were "quite poor now," but this did not seem to mean anything much. Grown-up people, even Mothers, often say things that don't seem to mean anything particular, just for the sake of saying something. There was always enough to eat, and they wore the same kind of nice clothes they had always worn.

But in June came three wet days; the rain came down straight as needles, and it was very, very cold. Nobody could go out, and everybody shivered. They all went up to the door of Mother's room and knocked.

"Well, what is it?" asked Mother from inside.

"Mother," said Bobbie, "may I light a fire? I do know how."

And Mother said: "No, my darling. We mustn't have fires in June — coal is so expensive. If you're cold, go and have a good run around in the attic. That'll warm you."

"But, Mother, it only takes such a very little coal to make a fire."

"It's more than we can afford, my love," said Mother, cheerfully. "Now run along, there's darlings — I'm terribly busy!"

"Mother's always busy now," said Phyllis, in a whisper to Peter. Peter did not answer. He shrugged his shoulders. He was thinking.

But thinking could not for long keep him away from the fun of furnishing a bandit's hideout in the attic. Peter was the bandit, of course. Bobbie was his right-hand man, his band of loyal robbers, and in due course, the parent of Phyllis, who was the captured girl for whom a wonderful ransom — in horse beans — was immediately paid.

They all went down to tea flushed and happy, just like mountain bandits.

But when Phyllis was going to add jam to her bread and butter, Mother said:—

"Jam OR butter, dear — not jam AND butter. We can't afford that kind of wasteful luxury nowadays."

Phyllis finished her bread and butter in silence, and followed it with bread and jam. Peter mixed thought with weak tea.

After tea they went back to the attic and he said to his sisters:—

"I have an idea."

"What's that?" they asked politely.

"I shan't tell you," was Peter's surprising answer.

"Oh, very well," said Bobbie; and Phil said, "Don't then."

"Girls," said Peter, "are always so quick-tempered."

"I should like to know what boys are?" said Bobbie, with a big scorn. "I don't want to know about your silly ideas."

"You'll know one day," said Peter, keeping his own temper by what looked exactly like a miracle; "if you hadn't been so keen to argue, I might have told you that it was only noble-heartedness that made me not tell you my idea. But now I shan't tell you anything at all about it — so there!"

And it was, indeed, some time before he could be persuaded to say anything, and when he did it wasn't much. He said:—

"The only reason why I won't tell you my idea that I'm going to do is because it MAY be wrong, and I don't want to drag you into it."

"Don't you do it if it's wrong, Peter," said Bobbie; "let me do it." But Phyllis said:—

"I should like to do wrong if YOU'RE going to!"

"No," said Peter, rather touched by this loyalty; "it's a dangerous plan, and I'm going to lead it. All I ask is that if Mother asks where I am, you won't tell."

"We haven't got anything TO tell," said Bobbie, crossly.

"Oh, yes, you have!" said Peter, dropping horse beans through his fingers. "I've trusted you completely. You know I'm going to do something alone — and some people might think it wrong — I don't. And if Mother asks where I am, say I'm playing at mines."

"What sort of mines?"

"You just say mines."

"You might tell US, Pete."

"Well, then, COAL mines. But don't you let the word pass your lips on pain of torture."

"You don't need to threaten," said Bobbie, "and I do think you might let us help."

"If I find a coal mine, you shall help carry the coal," Peter allowed himself to say.

"Keep your secret if you like," said Phyllis.

"Keep it if you CAN," said Bobbie.

"I'll keep it, right enough," said Peter.

Between tea and supper there is a gap even in the most hungry families. At this time Mother was usually writing, and Mrs. Viney had gone home.

Two nights after Peter's idea came to him, he beckoned the girls mysteriously at the twilight hour.

"Come with me," he said, "and bring the Roman Chariot."

The Roman Chariot was a very old pram that had spent years retired in the loft over the coach house. The children had oiled its wheels until it moved silently and answered to steering as well as it probably had in its best days.

"Follow your fearless leader," said Peter, and led the way down the hill towards the station.

Just above the station, many rocks pushed their heads through the grass as if they, like the children, were interested in the railway.

In a small hollow between three rocks lay a pile of dried brambles and heather.

Peter stopped, turned over the brushwood with a well-worn boot, and said:—

"Here's the first coal from the St. Peter's Mine. We'll take it home in the chariot. Quick and careful. All orders neatly done. Any shaped lump cut to suit regular customers."

The chariot was packed full of coal. And when it was packed it had to be unpacked again because it was so heavy that it couldn't be pulled up the hill by the three children, not even when Peter tied himself to the handle with his braces, and firmly holding his waistband in one hand pulled while the girls pushed behind.

Three trips had to be made before the coal from Peter's mine was added to the pile of Mother's coal in the cellar.

Afterwards Peter went out alone, and came back very black and mysterious.

"I've been to my coal mine," he said; "tomorrow evening we'll bring home the black diamonds in the chariot."

It was a week later that Mrs. Viney remarked to Mother how well this last lot of coal was lasting.

The children hugged themselves and each other in complicated silent laughter as they listened on the stairs. They had all forgotten by now that there had ever been any doubt in Peter's mind about whether coal mining was wrong.

But there came a dreadful night when the Station Master put on a pair of old rubber shoes that he had worn at the seaside in his summer holiday, and crept out very quietly to the yard where the great coal pile was, with the whitewashed line round it. He crept out there, and he waited like a cat by a mousehole. On top of the heap something small and dark was scrabbling and rattling secretly among the coal.

The Station Master hid himself in the shadow of a brake van that had a little tin chimney and was labelled:—

     G. N. and S. R.
          34576
    Return at once to
  White Heather Sidings

and in this hiding place he waited until the small thing on top of the heap stopped scrabbling, came to the edge, carefully let itself down, and lifted something after it. Then the arm of the Station Master went up, the hand of the Station Master fell on a collar, and there was Peter firmly held by the jacket, with an old carpenter's bag full of coal in his shaking hands.

"So I've caught you at last, have I, you young thief?" said the Station Master.

"I'm not a thief," said Peter, as firmly as he could. "I'm a coal miner."

"Tell that to someone else," said the Station Master.

"It would be just as true whoever I told it to," said Peter.

"You're right there," said the man who held him. "Stop talking, you young rascal, and come along to the station."

"Oh, no," cried in the darkness an anxious voice that was not Peter's.

"Not the POLICE station!" said another voice from the darkness.

"Not yet," said the Station Master. "The Railway Station first. Well, it's a whole gang. Any more of you?"

"Only us," said Bobbie and Phyllis, coming out of the shadow of another truck labelled Staveley Colliery, with a legend in white chalk: "Wanted in No. 1 Road."

"What do you mean by following a fellow like this?" said Peter, angrily.

"It was about time someone did, I think," said the Station Master. "Come along to the station."

"Oh, DON'T!" said Bobbie. "Can't you decide NOW what you'll do to us? It's our fault just as much as Peter's. We helped to carry the coal away — and we knew where he got it."

"No, you didn't," said Peter.

"Yes, we did," said Bobbie. "We knew all the time. We only pretended we didn't just to keep you happy."

Peter felt crushed. He had mined for coal, he had found coal, he had been caught, and now he learned that his sisters had been "keeping him happy."

"Don't hold me!" he said. "I won't run away."

The Station Master let go of Peter's collar, struck a match, and looked at them by its flickering light.

"Why," said he, "you're the children from the Three Chimneys up there. So nicely dressed, too. Tell me, what made you do such a thing? Haven't you ever been to church or learned your catechism or anything, to not know it's wicked to steal?" He spoke much more gently now, and Peter said:—

"I didn't think it was stealing. I was almost sure it wasn't. I thought if I took it from the outside part of the heap, perhaps it would be. But in the middle I thought I could fairly call it only mining. It will take thousands of years for you to burn all that coal and get to the middle parts."

"Not quite. But did you do it for a laugh or what?"

"Not much of a laugh carrying that awful heavy stuff up the hill," said Peter, crossly.

"Then why did you?" The Station Master's voice was much kinder now, and Peter replied:—

"You know that wet day? Well, Mother said we were too poor to have a fire. We always had fires when it was cold at our other house, and—"

"DON'T!" interrupted Bobbie, in a whisper.

"Well," said the Station Master, rubbing his chin thoughtfully, "I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll let it go this once. But you remember, young gentleman, stealing is stealing, and what's mine isn't yours, whether you call it mining or not. Run along home."

"Do you mean you aren't going to do anything to us? Well, you ARE decent," said Peter, with enthusiasm.

"You're a dear," said Bobbie.

"You're a darling," said Phyllis.

"That's all right," said the Station Master.

And they parted.

"Don't speak to me," said Peter, as the three went up the hill. "You're spies and traitors — that's what you are."

But the girls were too glad to have Peter between them, safe and free, and on the way to Three Chimneys and not to the Police Station, to mind much what he said.

"We DID say it was us as much as you," said Bobbie, gently.

"Well — and it wasn't."

"It would have come to the same thing in court with judges," said Phyllis. "Don't be grumpy, Peter. It isn't our fault your secrets are so easy to find out." She took his arm, and he let her.

"There's an awful lot of coal in the cellar, anyhow," he went on.

"Oh, don't!" said Bobbie. "I don't think we should be glad about THAT."

"I don't know," said Peter, cheering up. "I'm not at all sure, even now, that mining is a crime."

But the girls were quite sure. And they were also quite sure that he was quite sure, however little he wanted to admit it.

