

  The leftover black paint and second sheet were used to make a banner that read:

SHE IS NEARLY WELL THANK YOU

They hung it up two weeks after the wonderful hamper arrived. The old gentleman saw it from the train and waved happily.

After that, the children knew it was time to tell Mother what they had done while she was sick. It was harder than they thought. But they did tell her. Mother was very angry — angrier than they had ever seen her. Then she suddenly started crying, which made everyone else cry too.

She was the first to stop.

"I'm sorry, dears," she said. "I know you didn't understand."

"We didn't mean to be naughty," Bobbie sobbed.

Mother explained they were poor but not starving, and they should not tell strangers about private matters or ask for help. They promised not to do it again.

"I'll write to the old gentleman," she added. "I'll thank him, but tell him I didn't approve of what you did — not him."

Later, Bobbie said, "Isn't Mother wonderful? No other grown-up would say sorry like that."

"She's amazing," Peter agreed. "But scary when she's angry."

"She looks beautiful when she's furious," said Phyllis.

They gave the letter to the Station Master. He was surprised they had a new friend.

"He's just someone we know from the railway," said Peter.

They visited the Porter, who told them his name was Perks and taught them about engines: tanks, goods engines, and main-line engines.

"And engines have heads and tails!" Phyllis whispered. "Like dragons!"

Next day was Bobbie's birthday. She was told to stay out of the way until tea. She tried to be glad but felt lonely.

She kept thinking about something Mother had said during her fever:

"What a doctor's bill there'll be for this!"

Worried, she walked to the bridge over the canal to wait for the Doctor's cart. He arrived, and she asked for a ride.

They talked as they drove. Bobbie asked if they could join the doctor's club like Mrs. Viney, to help with the costs. The doctor was touched and said he'd sort it out.

They passed the aqueduct — a high canal bridge.

"It's like Rome!" said Bobbie.

"It is," the Doctor smiled. "Now no more worrying — or I'll send you a bill as long as the aqueduct!"

At home, Peter and Phyllis were dressed up. When the bell rang, Bobbie entered the candle-lit dining room. Everyone sang a birthday song Mother wrote.

Her presents included:

a needle-book from Phyllis,

a silver buttercup brooch from Mother,

vases from Mrs. Viney,

and birthday cards.

Peter gave her his toy engine — full of sweets. Bobbie was touched until he said, "Not the engine, just the sweets." Her face fell.

Peter noticed and said, "You can have half the engine."

"You're brilliant!" she cried, planning to fix it and give it back to him for his birthday.

After tea, they played games and listened to a story. That night, Bobbie saw Mother sad and quietly left her alone, pretending not to notice.

The next day, Mother went to town, taking Peter and Phyllis. Bobbie stayed behind, pretending her dress was too torn to go.

She put on old clothes, wrapped the toy engine in paper, and went to the tracks. When a train arrived, she tried to speak to the driver but wasn't heard. She climbed onto the engine and fell onto the coal. Suddenly, the train started moving.

She was terrified — worried she'd be taken far away with no money.

She pulled on the driver's sleeve. Both men were shocked.

"What are you doing here?" they asked.

She cried, then explained. "I wanted to ask if you could fix this." She showed them the toy engine.

At first they joked, but then they softened. "Jim might know someone who can solder it."

They talked about engines, brakes, and steam. Bobbie listened eagerly.

At Stacklepoole Junction, they gave her to a friendly guard on a train heading back. She learned more about train work — why the guard's van smelled like fish and how the emergency cord works.

She got home just in time for tea, full of excitement.

Peter asked where she'd been.

"To the station," she said, smiling mysteriously.

Later, she took them all there and introduced Bill and Jim. The toy engine had been fixed and looked brand new.

"Goodbye!" she shouted as the train left. "I'll always love you — and Jim's cousin's wife's brother too!"

Peter hugged his engine all the way home while Bobbie proudly told her tale of being an Engine-Burglar.

