

When Mary Lennox was sent to Misselthwaite Manor to live with her uncle, everyone said she was the most unpleasant-looking child they had ever seen. And it was true. She had a small thin face and a small thin body, thin light hair and an angry expression. Her hair was yellow, and her face was yellow too, because she had been born in India and had always been sick in one way or another. Her father had worked for the English Government and had always been busy and ill himself. Her mother had been a very beautiful woman who only wanted to go to parties and have fun with happy people. She had not wanted a little girl at all. When Mary was born, she gave her to the care of an Indian servant woman called an Ayah. The Ayah was told that if she wanted to please the mother, she must keep the child out of sight as much as possible. So when Mary was a sick, unhappy, ugly little baby, she was kept away. And when she became a sick, unhappy little child who was learning to walk, she was kept away too. She never remembered seeing anyone clearly except the dark faces of her Ayah and the other Indian servants. They always obeyed her and gave her everything she wanted, because the mother would be angry if the child cried and disturbed her. So by the time Mary was six years old, she was as bossy and selfish as any child could be. The young English teacher who came to teach her to read and write disliked her so much that she left after three months. Other teachers who came to replace her always left even sooner. So if Mary had not decided she really wanted to learn how to read books, she would never have learned her letters at all.

One very hot morning, when she was about nine years old, she woke up feeling very cross. She became even more cross when she saw that the servant standing by her bed was not her Ayah.

"Why did you come?" she said to the strange woman. "I will not let you stay. Send my Ayah to me."

The woman looked frightened, but she only said that the Ayah could not come. When Mary threw herself into a rage and hit and kicked her, the woman only looked more frightened and repeated that it was not possible for the Ayah to come to Missie Sahib.

There was something strange in the air that morning. Nothing was done in its normal order and several of the Indian servants seemed to be missing. The ones Mary could see moved about quickly with pale and frightened faces. But no one would tell her anything and her Ayah did not come. She was actually left alone as the morning went on. At last she walked out into the garden and began to play by herself under a tree near the porch. She pretended she was making a flower bed, and she pushed big red flowers into little piles of earth, all the time growing more and more angry and talking to herself about the things she would say and the names she would call Saidie when she returned.

"Pig! Pig! Daughter of pigs!" she said, because calling a native a pig is the worst insult of all.

She was grinding her teeth and saying this again and again when she heard her mother come out onto the porch with someone. She was with a young man with fair hair, and they stood talking together in low, strange voices. Mary knew the young man who looked almost like a boy. She had heard that he was a very young officer who had just come from England. The child stared at him, but she stared most at her mother. She always did this when she had a chance to see her, because the mother — Mary usually called her that — was such a tall, slim, pretty person and wore such lovely clothes. Her hair was like curly silk and she had a delicate little nose that seemed to look down at things, and she had large laughing eyes. All her clothes were light and flowing, and Mary said they were "full of lace." They looked fuller of lace than ever that morning, but her eyes were not laughing at all. They were large and scared and looking up at the young officer's face with desperation.

"Is it really so bad? Oh, is it?" Mary heard her say.

"Terribly bad," the young man answered in a shaking voice. "Terribly bad, Mrs. Lennox. You should have gone to the hills two weeks ago."

The mother pressed her hands together.

"Oh, I know I should!" she cried. "I only stayed to go to that silly dinner party. What a fool I was!"

At that very moment such a loud sound of crying came from the servants' area that she grabbed the young man's arm, and Mary stood shaking from head to foot. The crying grew louder and louder.

"What is it? What is it?" Mrs. Lennox gasped.

"Someone has died," answered the young officer. "You did not say it had broken out among your servants."

"I did not know!" the mother cried. "Come with me! Come with me!" and she turned and ran into the house.

After that, terrible things happened, and the mystery of that morning was explained to Mary. Cholera had broken out in its most deadly form and people were dying very fast. The Ayah had become ill in the night, and it was because she had just died that the servants had cried in their huts. Before the next day, three other servants were dead and others had run away in fear. There was panic everywhere, and dying people in all the nearby houses.

During the confusion and disorder of the second day, Mary hid herself in the nursery and was forgotten by everyone. Nobody thought of her, nobody wanted her, and strange things happened that she knew nothing about. Mary sometimes cried and sometimes slept through the hours. She only knew that people were ill and that she heard mysterious and frightening sounds. Once she went into the dining room and found it empty, though a partly eaten meal was on the table and chairs and plates looked as if they had been pushed back quickly when the people eating suddenly got up for some reason. The child ate some fruit and biscuits, and because she was thirsty she drank a glass of wine that was nearly full. It was sweet, and she did not know how strong it was. Very soon it made her very sleepy, and she went back to her nursery and shut herself in again, frightened by the cries she heard in the huts and by the sound of hurrying feet. The wine made her so sleepy that she could hardly keep her eyes open and she lay down on her bed and knew nothing more for a long time.

Many things happened during the hours she slept so deeply, but she was not disturbed by the crying and the sound of things being carried in and out of the house.

When she woke up she lay still and stared at the wall. The house was completely quiet. She had never known it to be so silent before. She heard no voices and no footsteps, and she wondered if everyone had got better from the cholera and all the trouble was over. She also wondered who would take care of her now her Ayah was dead. There would be a new Ayah, and perhaps she would know some new stories. Mary had been rather tired of the old ones. She did not cry because her nurse had died. She was not a loving child and had never cared much for anyone. The noise and hurrying about and crying over the cholera had frightened her, and she had been angry because no one seemed to remember that she was alive. Everyone was too frightened to think of a little girl that no one was fond of. When people had cholera it seemed that they remembered nothing but themselves. But if everyone had got well again, surely someone would remember and come to look for her.

But no one came, and as she lay waiting the house seemed to grow more and more silent. She heard something moving on the mat, and when she looked down she saw a little snake moving along and watching her with eyes like jewels. She was not frightened, because it was a harmless little thing that would not hurt her and it seemed to be in a hurry to get out of the room. It slipped under the door as she watched it.

"How strange and quiet it is," she said. "It sounds as if there is no one in the house but me and the snake."

Almost the next minute she heard footsteps in the yard outside, and then on the porch. They were men's footsteps, and the men entered the house and talked in low voices. No one went to meet or speak to them and they seemed to open doors and look into rooms.

"What emptiness!" she heard one voice say. "That pretty, pretty woman! I suppose the child, too. I heard there was a child, though no one ever saw her."

Mary was standing in the middle of the nursery when they opened the door a few minutes later. She looked like an ugly, cross little thing and was frowning because she was beginning to be hungry and feel that everyone had forgotten her. The first man who came in was a large officer she had once seen talking to her father. He looked tired and worried, but when he saw her he was so surprised that he almost jumped back.

"Barney!" he cried out. "There is a child here! A child alone! In a place like this! Have mercy on us, who is she!"

"I am Mary Lennox," the little girl said, standing up very straight. She thought the man was very rude to call her father's house "a place like this!" "I fell asleep when everyone had the cholera and I have only just woken up. Why does nobody come?"

"It is the child no one ever saw!" exclaimed the man, turning to his companions. "She has actually been forgotten!"

"Why was I forgotten?" Mary said, stamping her foot. "Why does nobody come?"

The young man whose name was Barney looked at her very sadly. Mary even thought she saw him blink his eyes to hold back tears.

"Poor little child!" he said. "There is nobody left to come."

It was in that strange and sudden way that Mary found out that she had no father or mother left. They had died and been taken away in the night, and the few Indian servants who had not died had also left the house as quickly as they could. None of them had even remembered that there was a Missie Sahib. That was why the place was so quiet. It was true that there was no one in the house but herself and the little moving snake.

