

Mary had liked to look at her mother from far away and she had thought her very pretty, but as she knew very little of her she could hardly have been expected to love her or to miss her very much when she was gone. She did not miss her at all, in fact, and as she was a child who thought only about herself she gave all her attention to herself, as she had always done. If she had been older she would no doubt have been very worried about being left alone in the world, but she was very young, and as she had always been taken care of, she thought she always would be. What she thought about was whether she was going to go to nice people who would be polite to her and give her her own way as her Ayah and the other Indian servants had done.

She knew that she was not going to stay at the English priest's house where she was first taken. She did not want to stay. The English priest was poor and he had five children all of about the same age and they wore old clothes and were always arguing and taking toys from each other. Mary hated their untidy house and was so unpleasant to them that after the first day or two nobody would play with her. By the second day they had given her a nickname which made her furious.

It was Basil who thought of it first. Basil was a little boy with bold blue eyes and a turned-up nose and Mary hated him. She was playing by herself under a tree, just as she had been playing the day the cholera broke out. She was making piles of earth and paths for a garden and Basil came and stood near to watch her. Soon he became rather interested and suddenly made a suggestion.

"Why don't you put a pile of stones there and pretend it is a rock garden?" he said. "There in the middle," and he leaned over her to point.

"Go away!" cried Mary. "I don't want boys. Go away!"

For a moment Basil looked angry, and then he began to tease her. He was always teasing his sisters. He danced round and round her and made faces and sang and laughed.

"Mistress Mary, quite contrary,
How does your garden grow?
With silver bells, and cockle shells,
And marigolds all in a row."

He sang it until the other children heard and laughed, too. And the crosser Mary got, the more they sang "Mistress Mary, quite contrary." After that as long as she stayed with them they called her "Mistress Mary Quite Contrary" when they spoke of her to each other, and often when they spoke to her.

"You are going to be sent home," Basil said to her, "at the end of the week. And we're glad of it."

"I am glad of it, too," answered Mary. "Where is home?"

"She doesn't know where home is!" said Basil, with the contempt of a seven-year-old. "It's England, of course. Our grandmother lives there and our sister Mabel was sent to her last year. You are not going to your grandmother. You have none. You are going to your uncle. His name is Mr. Archibald Craven."

"I don't know anything about him," snapped Mary.

"I know you don't," Basil answered. "You don't know anything. Girls never do. I heard father and mother talking about him. He lives in a great, big, empty old house in the country and no one goes near him. He's so unpleasant he won't let them, and they wouldn't come if he would let them. He's a hunchback, and he's horrible."

"I don't believe you," said Mary; and she turned her back and put her fingers in her ears, because she would not listen any more.

But she thought about it a great deal afterward. When Mrs. Crawford told her that night that she was going to sail away to England in a few days and go to her uncle, Mr. Archibald Craven, who lived at Misselthwaite Manor, she looked so cold and completely uninterested that they did not know what to think about her. They tried to be kind to her, but she only turned her face away when Mrs. Crawford tried to kiss her, and held herself stiffly when Mr. Crawford patted her shoulder.

"She is such a plain child," Mrs. Crawford said sadly afterward. "And her mother was such a pretty creature. She had a very pretty manner, too, and Mary has the most unpleasant ways I have ever seen in a child. The children call her 'Mistress Mary Quite Contrary,' and though it is naughty of them, one can understand it."

"Perhaps if her mother had brought her pretty face and her pretty manners into the nursery more often Mary might have learned some nice ways too. It is very sad, now the poor beautiful woman is gone, to remember that many people never even knew that she had a child at all."

"I believe she almost never looked at her," sighed Mrs. Crawford. "When her Ayah was dead there was no one to give a thought to the little thing. Think of the servants running away and leaving her all alone in that empty house. Colonel McGrew said he nearly jumped out of his skin when he opened the door and found her standing by herself in the middle of the room."

Mary made the long journey to England under the care of an officer's wife who was taking her children to leave them in a boarding school. She was very focused on her own little boy and girl, and was quite happy to hand the child over to the woman Mr. Archibald Craven sent to meet her, in London. The woman was his housekeeper at Misselthwaite Manor, and her name was Mrs. Medlock. She was a large woman with very red cheeks and sharp black eyes. She wore a very purple dress, a black silk coat with black decoration on it and a black hat with purple velvet flowers which shook when she moved her head. Mary did not like her at all, but as she very rarely liked people there was nothing surprising in that. Besides, it was very clear that Mrs. Medlock did not think much of her either.

"My word! She's a plain little thing!" she said. "And we'd heard that her mother was a beauty. She hasn't given much of it down to her daughter, has she, ma'am?"

"Perhaps she will get better looking as she grows older," the officer's wife said kindly. "If she were not so yellow and had a nicer expression, her features are rather good. Children change so much."

"She'll have to change a good deal," answered Mrs. Medlock. "And there's nothing likely to help children at Misselthwaite — if you ask me!"

They thought Mary was not listening because she was standing a little apart from them at the window of the private hotel they had gone to. She was watching the buses and taxis and people passing by, but she heard quite well and was very curious about her uncle and the place he lived in. What sort of place was it, and what would he be like? What was a hunchback? She had never seen one. Perhaps there were none in India.

Since she had been living in other people's houses and had had no Ayah, she had begun to feel lonely and to think strange thoughts which were new to her. She had begun to wonder why she had never seemed to belong to anyone even when her father and mother had been alive. Other children seemed to belong to their fathers and mothers, but she had never seemed to really be anyone's little girl. She had had servants, and food and clothes, but no one had paid any attention to her. She did not know that this was because she was an unpleasant child. But then, of course, she did not know she was unpleasant herself. She often thought that other people were unpleasant, but she did not know that she was so herself.

She thought Mrs. Medlock was the most unpleasant person she had ever seen, with her ordinary, brightly colored face and her ordinary fine hat. When the next day they set out on their journey to Yorkshire, she walked through the station to the train with her head up and trying to keep as far from her as she could, because she did not want to seem to belong to her. It would have made her very angry to think people imagined she was her little girl.

But Mrs. Medlock was not at all bothered by her and her thoughts. She was the kind of woman who would "stand no nonsense from young ones." At least, that is what she would have said if she had been asked. She had not wanted to go to London just when her sister Maria's daughter was going to be married, but she had a comfortable, well-paid job as housekeeper at Misselthwaite Manor and the only way she could keep it was to do at once what Mr. Archibald Craven told her to do. She never even dared to ask a question.

"Captain Lennox and his wife died of the cholera," Mr. Craven had said in his short, cold way. "Captain Lennox was my wife's brother and I am their daughter's guardian. The child is to be brought here. You must go to London and bring her yourself."

So she packed her small bag and made the journey.

Mary sat in her corner of the train carriage and looked plain and unhappy. She had nothing to read or to look at, and she had folded her thin little black-gloved hands in her lap. Her black dress made her look more yellow than ever, and her thin light hair hung down under her black hat.

"A more sad-looking young one I never saw in my life," Mrs. Medlock thought. She had never seen a child who sat so still without doing anything. At last she got tired of watching her and began to talk in a firm, hard voice.

"I suppose I may as well tell you something about where you are going to," she said. "Do you know anything about your uncle?"

"No," said Mary.

"Never heard your father and mother talk about him?"

"No," said Mary, frowning. She frowned because she remembered that her father and mother had never talked to her about anything in particular. They had certainly never told her things.

"Hmm," said Mrs. Medlock, staring at her strange, quiet little face. She did not say any more for a few moments and then she began again.

"I suppose you might as well be told something — to prepare you. You are going to a strange place."

Mary said nothing at all, and Mrs. Medlock looked rather put off by her clear lack of interest. But after taking a breath, she went on.

"Not that it isn't a grand big place in a gloomy way, and Mr. Craven is proud of it in his way — and that is gloomy enough, too. The house is six hundred years old and it is on the edge of the moor, and there are nearly a hundred rooms in it, though most of them are shut up and locked. And there are pictures and fine old furniture and things that have been there for many years, and there is a big park round it and gardens and trees with branches reaching to the ground — some of them." She paused and took another breath. "But there is nothing else," she ended suddenly.

Mary had begun to listen in spite of herself. It all sounded so different from India, and anything new rather interested her. But she did not intend to look as if she were interested. That was one of her unhappy, unpleasant habits. So she sat still.

"Well," said Mrs. Medlock. "What do you think of it?"

"Nothing," she answered. "I know nothing about such places."

That made Mrs. Medlock laugh a short kind of laugh.

"Eh!" she said, "but you are like an old woman. Don't you care?"

"It doesn't matter," said Mary, "whether I care or not."

"You are right enough there," said Mrs. Medlock. "It doesn't. What you're to be kept at Misselthwaite Manor for I don't know, unless because it's the easiest way. He's not going to trouble himself about you, that's for sure. He never troubles himself about anyone."

She stopped herself as if she had just remembered something in time.

"He has a bent back," she said. "That made everything wrong for him. He was a bitter young man and got no good from all his money and big house until he was married."

Mary's eyes turned toward her in spite of her intention not to seem to care. She had never thought of the hunchback being married and she was a little surprised. Mrs. Medlock saw this, and as she was a talkative woman she continued with more interest. This was one way of passing some of the time, at any rate.

"She was a sweet, pretty thing and he would have walked across the world to get her a single blade of grass she wanted. Nobody thought she'd marry him, but she did, and people said she married him for his money. But she didn't — she didn't," she said firmly. "When she died —"

Mary gave a small involuntary jump.

"Oh! Did she die!" she said, almost without meaning to. She had just remembered a French fairy story she had once read called 'Riquet à la Houppe.' It had been about a poor hunchback and a beautiful princess and it had suddenly made her feel sorry for Mr. Archibald Craven.

"Yes, she died," Mrs. Medlock answered. "And it made him stranger than ever. He cares about nobody. He won't see people. Most of the time he goes away, and when he is at Misselthwaite he shuts himself up in the West Wing and won't let anyone but Pitcher see him. Pitcher is an old man, but he looked after him when he was a child and he knows his ways."

It sounded like something in a book and it did not make Mary feel cheerful. A house with a hundred rooms, nearly all shut up and with their doors locked — a house on the edge of a moor — whatever a moor was — sounded dark and sad. A man with a bent back who shut himself up too! She stared out of the window with her lips pressed together, and it seemed quite natural that the rain had begun to pour down in gray slanting lines and splash and run down the window glass. If the pretty wife had been alive she might have made things cheerful by being something like her own mother and by going in and out and going to parties as she had done in dresses "full of lace." But she was not there any more.

"You need not expect to see him, because nine times out of ten you won't," said Mrs. Medlock. "And you must not expect that there will be people to talk to you. You will have to play about and look after yourself. You will be told what rooms you can go into and what rooms you must keep out of. There are enough gardens. But when you are in the house don't go walking around and looking into things. Mr. Craven won't have it."

"I shall not want to go looking into things," said cross little Mary. And just as suddenly as she had begun to feel a little sorry for Mr. Archibald Craven she began to stop feeling sorry and to think he was unpleasant enough to deserve all that had happened to him.

And she turned her face toward the running rain on the window of the train carriage and looked out at the gray rainstorm which looked as if it would go on forever and ever. She watched it so long and steadily that the grayness grew heavier and heavier before her eyes and she fell asleep.

