

She slept a long time, and when she woke up Mrs. Medlock had bought a lunch basket at one of the stations and they had some chicken and cold beef and bread and butter and some hot tea. The rain seemed to be falling more heavily than ever and everyone at the station wore wet and shining waterproof coats. The guard lit the lamps in the carriage, and Mrs. Medlock cheered up very much over her tea and chicken and beef. She ate a great deal and afterward fell asleep herself. Mary sat and stared at her and watched her fine hat slip to one side until she herself fell asleep once more in the corner of the carriage, soothed by the splashing of the rain against the windows. It was quite dark when she woke again. The train had stopped at a station and Mrs. Medlock was shaking her.

"You have had a sleep!" she said. "It's time to open your eyes! We're at Thwaite Station and we've got a long drive before us."

Mary stood up and tried to keep her eyes open while Mrs. Medlock collected her bags. The little girl did not offer to help her, because in India the Indian servants always picked up or carried things and it seemed perfectly normal that other people should wait on one.

The station was a small one and nobody but themselves seemed to be getting out of the train. The stationmaster spoke to Mrs. Medlock in a rough, friendly way, saying his words in a strange broad way which Mary found out afterward was Yorkshire.

"I see tha's got back," he said. "An' tha's brought th' young 'un with thee."

"Aye, that's her," answered Mrs. Medlock, speaking with a Yorkshire accent herself and pointing her head toward Mary. "How's thy Missus?"

"Well enough. Th' carriage is waiting outside for thee."

A carriage stood on the road before the little outside platform. Mary saw that it was a nice carriage and that it was a well-dressed servant who helped her in. His long waterproof coat and the waterproof covering of his hat were shining and dripping with rain as everything was, including the large stationmaster.

When the servant shut the door, climbed up with the driver, and they drove off, the little girl found herself sitting in a comfortably cushioned corner, but she was not ready to go to sleep again. She sat and looked out of the window, curious to see something of the road over which she was being driven to the strange place Mrs. Medlock had spoken of. She was not at all a timid child and she was not exactly frightened, but she felt that there was no knowing what might happen in a house with a hundred rooms nearly all shut up — a house standing on the edge of a moor.

"What is a moor?" she said suddenly to Mrs. Medlock.

"Look out of the window in about ten minutes and you'll see," the woman answered. "We've got to drive five miles across Missel Moor before we get to the Manor. You won't see much because it's a dark night, but you can see something."

Mary asked no more questions but waited in the darkness of her corner, keeping her eyes on the window. The carriage lamps cast light a little distance ahead of them and she caught glimpses of the things they passed. After they had left the station they had driven through a tiny village and she had seen white cottages and the lights of a pub. Then they had passed a church and a vicarage and a little shop window or two in a cottage with toys and sweets and odd things set out for sale. Then they were on the main road and she saw hedges and trees. After that there seemed to be nothing different for a long time — or at least it seemed a long time to her.

At last the horses began to go more slowly, as if they were going uphill. Soon there seemed to be no more hedges and no more trees. She could see nothing, in fact, but thick darkness on either side. She leaned forward and pressed her face against the window just as the carriage hit a big bump.

"Eh! We're on the moor now for sure," said Mrs. Medlock.

The carriage lamps shone a yellow light on a rough-looking road which seemed to be cut through bushes and low-growing plants which ended in the great stretch of dark spread out before and around them. A wind was rising and making a strange, wild, low, rushing sound.

"It's — it's not the sea, is it?" said Mary, looking round at her companion.

"No, it's not," answered Mrs. Medlock. "Nor is it fields nor mountains. It's just miles and miles and miles of wild land that nothing grows on but heather and gorse and broom, and nothing lives on but wild ponies and sheep."

"I feel as if it might be the sea, if there were water on it," said Mary. "It sounds like the sea just now."

"That's the wind blowing through the bushes," Mrs. Medlock said. "It's a wild, sad enough place to my mind, though there are plenty that like it — particularly when the heather is in bloom."

On and on they drove through the darkness, and though the rain stopped, the wind rushed by and whistled and made strange sounds. The road went up and down, and several times the carriage passed over a little bridge under which water rushed very fast with a lot of noise. Mary felt as if the drive would never end and that the wide, empty moor was a wide, dark ocean through which she was passing on a strip of dry land.

"I don't like it," she said to herself. "I don't like it," and she pressed her thin lips more tightly together.

The horses were going up a hilly piece of road when she first saw a light. Mrs. Medlock saw it as soon as she did and let out a long breath of relief.

"Eh, I am glad to see that bit of light twinkling," she said. "It's the light in the lodge window. We shall get a good cup of tea after a bit, at least."

It was "after a bit," as she said, for when the carriage passed through the park gates there was still two miles of road lined with trees to drive through and the trees (which almost met overhead) made it seem as if they were driving through a long dark tunnel.

They drove out of the tunnel into a clear space and stopped before an enormously long but low-built house which seemed to wrap around a stone yard. At first Mary thought there were no lights at all in the windows, but as she got out of the carriage she saw that one room in a corner upstairs showed a faint glow.

The entrance door was a huge one made of heavy, oddly shaped panels of oak with big iron nails and great iron bars. It opened into an enormous hall which was so dimly lit that the faces in the portraits on the walls and the figures in the suits of armor made Mary feel that she did not want to look at them. As she stood on the stone floor she looked a very small, strange little black figure, and she felt as small and lost and strange as she looked.

A thin, neat old man stood near the manservant who opened the door for them.

"You are to take her to her room," he said in a low, rough voice. "He doesn't want to see her. He's going to London in the morning."

"Very well, Mr. Pitcher," Mrs. Medlock answered. "So long as I know what's expected of me, I can manage."

"What's expected of you, Mrs. Medlock," Mr. Pitcher said, "is that you make sure that he's not disturbed and that he doesn't see what he doesn't want to see."

And then Mary Lennox was led up a wide staircase and down a long corridor and up a short flight of steps and through another corridor and another, until a door opened in a wall and she found herself in a room with a fire in it and a supper on a table.

Mrs. Medlock said without any ceremony:

"Well, here you are! This room and the next are where you'll live — and you must keep to them. Don't you forget that!"

It was in this way Mistress Mary arrived at Misselthwaite Manor and she had perhaps never felt quite so contrary in all her life.

