

When she opened her eyes in the morning it was because a young housemaid had come into her room to light the fire and was kneeling on the mat in front of the fireplace, noisily cleaning out the old ashes. Mary lay and watched her for a few moments and then began to look around the room. She had never seen a room at all like it and thought it strange and gloomy. The walls were covered with a heavy wall-covering with a forest scene stitched on it. There were people in unusual dress under the trees and in the distance there was a view of the towers of a castle. There were hunters and horses and dogs and ladies. Mary felt as if she were in the forest with them. Out of a deep window she could see a great stretching area of land which seemed to have no trees on it, and to look rather like an endless, dull, purple-grey sea.

"What is that?" she said, pointing out of the window.

Martha, the young housemaid, who had just stood up, looked and pointed too.

"That there?" she said.

"Yes."

"That's th' moor," with a good-natured grin. "Does tha' like it?"

"No," answered Mary. "I hate it."

"That's because tha'rt not used to it," Martha said, going back to her fireplace. "Tha' thinks it's too big an' bare now. But tha' will like it."

"Do you?" asked Mary.

"Aye, that I do," answered Martha, cheerfully cleaning the fireplace. "I just love it. It's not bare at all. It's covered wi' growing things as smell sweet. It's very lovely in spring an' summer when th' gorse an' broom an' heather's in flower. It smells o' honey an' there's so much fresh air — an' th' sky looks so high an' th' bees an' skylarks make such a nice noise humming an' singing. Eh! I wouldn't live away from th' moor for anything."

Mary listened to her with a serious, puzzled look. The Indian servants she had been used to were not at all like this. They were very respectful and obedient and did not think they could talk to their employers as if they were equal. They bowed low and called them "protector of the poor" and names like that. Indian servants were told to do things, not asked. It was not normal to say "please" and "thank you" and Mary had always slapped her Ayah in the face when she was angry. She wondered what this girl would do if one slapped her in the face. She looked like a round, rosy, good-natured girl, but she had a strong way which made Mistress Mary wonder if she might even slap back — if the person who slapped her was only a little girl.

"You are a strange servant," she said from her pillow, rather proudly.

Martha sat up on her heels, with her cleaning brush in her hand, and laughed, without seeming at all upset.

"Eh! I know that," she said. "If there was a grand Mistress at Misselthwaite I should never have been even one of the under housemaids. I might have been allowed to be a kitchen maid but I'd never have been allowed upstairs. I'm too ordinary an' I talk too much Yorkshire. But this is a funny house for all it's so grand. Seems like there's neither Master nor Mistress except Mr. Pitcher an' Mrs. Medlock. Mr. Craven, he won't be troubled about anything when he's here, an' he's nearly always away. Mrs. Medlock gave me th' place out of kindness. She told me she could never have done it if Misselthwaite had been like other big houses."

"Are you going to be my servant?" Mary asked, still in her proud little Indian way.

Martha began to rub her fireplace again.

"I'm Mrs. Medlock's servant," she said firmly. "An' she's Mr. Craven's — but I'm to do the housemaid's work up here an' wait on you a bit. But you won't need much waiting on."

"Who is going to dress me?" demanded Mary.

Martha sat up on her heels again and stared. She spoke in broad Yorkshire in her amazement.

"Canna' tha' dress thysen!" she said.

"What do you mean? I don't understand your language," said Mary.

"Eh! I forgot," Martha said. "Mrs. Medlock told me I'd have to be careful or you wouldn't know what I was saying. I mean can't you put on your own clothes?"

"No," answered Mary, quite annoyed. "I never did in my life. My Ayah dressed me, of course."

"Well," said Martha, clearly not at all aware that she was being rude, "it's time tha' should learn. Tha' cannot begin younger. It'll do thee good to wait on thysen a bit. My mother always said she couldn't see why grand people's children didn't turn out complete fools — what with nurses an' being washed an' dressed an' taken out to walk as if they was puppies!"

"It is different in India," said Mistress Mary with contempt. She could hardly stand this.

But Martha was not at all upset.

"Eh! I can see it's different," she answered almost kindly. "I dare say it's because there's such a lot of dark-skinned people there instead of respectable white people. When I heard you was coming from India I thought you was a dark person too."

Mary sat up in bed furious.

"What!" she said. "What! You thought I was a native. You — you daughter of a pig!"

Martha stared and looked hot.

"Who are you calling names?" she said. "You needn't be so angry. That's not th' way for a young lady to talk. I've nothing against dark-skinned people. When you read about 'em in books they're always very religious. You always read as a dark person's a man an' a brother. I've never seen one an' I was quite pleased to think I was going to see one close. When I came in to light your fire this morning I crept up to your bed an' pulled th' cover back carefully to look at you. An' there you was," she said with disappointment, "no more dark than me — for all you're so yellow."

Mary did not even try to control her anger and embarrassment.

"You thought I was a native! You dared! You don't know anything about natives! They are not people — they're servants who must bow to you. You know nothing about India. You know nothing about anything!"

She was in such a rage and felt so helpless before the girl's simple stare, and somehow she suddenly felt so horribly lonely and far away from everything she knew and that knew her, that she threw herself face down on the pillows and burst into passionate crying. She sobbed so much that good-natured Yorkshire Martha was a little frightened and quite sorry for her. She went to the bed and bent over her.

"Eh! you mustn't cry like that there!" she begged. "You mustn't for sure. I didn't know you'd be upset. I don't know anything about anything — just like you said. I beg your pardon, Miss. Do stop crying."

There was something comforting and really friendly in her strange Yorkshire speech and firm way which had a good effect on Mary. She gradually stopped crying and became quiet. Martha looked relieved.

"It's time for thee to get up now," she said. "Mrs. Medlock said I was to carry tha' breakfast an' tea an' dinner into th' room next to this. It's been made into a nursery for thee. I'll help thee on with thy clothes if tha'll get out o' bed. If th' buttons are at th' back tha' cannot button them up tha'self."

When Mary at last decided to get up, the clothes Martha took from the wardrobe were not the ones she had worn when she arrived the night before with Mrs. Medlock.

"Those are not mine," she said. "Mine are black."

She looked the thick white wool coat and dress over, and added with cool approval:

"Those are nicer than mine."

"These are th' ones tha' must put on," Martha answered. "Mr. Craven ordered Mrs. Medlock to get 'em in London. He said, 'I won't have a child dressed in black wandering about like a lost soul,' he said. 'It'd make the place sadder than it is. Put color on her.' Mother she said she knew what he meant. Mother always knows what a person means. She doesn't agree with black herself."

"I hate black things," said Mary.

The dressing process taught them both something. Martha had done up the buttons of her little brothers and sisters but she had never seen a child who stood still and waited for another person to do things for her as if she had no hands or feet of her own.

"Why doesn't tha' put on tha' own shoes?" she said when Mary quietly held out her foot.

"My Ayah did it," answered Mary, staring. "It was the custom."

She said that very often — "It was the custom." The Indian servants were always saying it. If one told them to do a thing their ancestors had not done for a thousand years they would look at one calmly and say, "It is not the custom" and one knew that was the end of the matter.

It had not been the custom that Mistress Mary should do anything but stand and allow herself to be dressed like a doll, but before she was ready for breakfast she began to suspect that her life at Misselthwaite Manor would end by teaching her a number of things quite new to her — things such as putting on her own shoes and stockings, and picking up things she dropped. If Martha had been a well-trained fine young lady's maid she would have been more obedient and respectful and would have known that it was her job to brush hair and button boots and pick things up and put them away. She was, however, only an untrained Yorkshire country girl who had grown up in a moorland cottage with a crowd of little brothers and sisters who had never thought of doing anything but taking care of themselves and the younger ones who were either babies in arms or just learning to walk and fall over things.

If Mary Lennox had been a child who was ready to be amused she would perhaps have laughed at Martha's readiness to talk, but Mary only listened to her coldly and was surprised by her freedom of manner. At first she was not at all interested, but gradually, as the girl chattered on in her good-natured, simple way, Mary began to notice what she was saying.

"Eh! you should see 'em all," she said. "There's twelve of us an' my father only gets sixteen shillings a week. I can tell you my mother's struggling to get porridge for 'em all. They run about on th' moor an' play there all day an' mother says th' air of th' moor makes them healthy. She says she believes they eat th' grass same as th' wild ponies do. Our Dickon, he's twelve years old and he's got a young pony he calls his own."

"Where did he get it?" asked Mary.

"He found it on th' moor with its mother when it was a little one an' he began to make friends with it an' give it bits o' bread an' pull young grass for it. And it got to like him so it follows him about an' it lets him get on its back. Dickon's a kind lad an' animals like him."

Mary had never had an animal as a pet of her own and had always thought she should like one. So she began to feel a little interest in Dickon, and as she had never before been interested in anyone but herself, it was the start of a healthy feeling. When she went into the room which had been made into a nursery for her, she found that it was rather like the one she had slept in. It was not a child's room, but a grown-up person's room, with dark old pictures on the walls and heavy old oak chairs. A table in the center was set with a good, filling breakfast. But she had always had a very small appetite, and she looked with something more than not caring at the first plate Martha set before her.

"I don't want it," she said.

"Tha' doesn't want thy porridge!" Martha exclaimed as if she couldn't believe it.

"No."

"Tha' doesn't know how good it is. Put a bit o' treacle on it or a bit o' sugar."

"I don't want it," repeated Mary.

"Eh!" said Martha. "I can't bear to see good food go to waste. If our children was at this table they'd clean it bare in five minutes."

"Why?" said Mary coldly.

"Why!" repeated Martha. "Because they've almost never had their stomachs full in their lives. They're as hungry as young hawks an' foxes."

"I don't know what it is to be hungry," said Mary, with the uncaring attitude of someone who didn't know about it.

Martha looked annoyed.

"Well, it would do thee good to try it. I can see that clearly enough," she said directly. "I've no patience with folk as sits an' just stares at good bread an' meat. My word! don't I wish Dickon and Phil an' Jane an' th' rest of 'em had what's here in front of them."

"Why don't you take it to them?" suggested Mary.

"It's not mine," answered Martha firmly. "An' this isn't my day out. I get my day out once a month same as th' rest. Then I go home an' clean up for mother an' give her a day's rest."

Mary drank some tea and ate a little toast and some marmalade.

"You wrap up warm an' run out an' play," said Martha. "It'll do you good and give you some appetite for your food."

Mary went to the window. There were gardens and paths and big trees, but everything looked dull and winterish.

"Out? Why should I go out on a day like this?"

"Well, if tha' doesn't go out tha'll have to stay in, an' what has tha' got to do?"

Mary looked around her. There was nothing to do. When Mrs. Medlock had prepared the nursery she had not thought of things to do for fun. Perhaps it would be better to go and see what the gardens were like.

"Who will go with me?" she asked.

Martha stared.

"You'll go by yourself," she answered. "You'll have to learn to play like other children do when they haven't got sisters and brothers. Our Dickon goes off on th' moor by himself an' plays for hours. That's how he made friends wi' th' pony. He's got sheep on th' moor that knows him, an' birds as comes an' eats out of his hand. However little there is to eat, he always saves a bit o' his bread to coax his pets."

It was really this mention of Dickon which made Mary decide to go out, though she was not aware of it. There would be birds outside though there would not be ponies or sheep. They would be different from the birds in India and it might amuse her to look at them.

Martha found her coat and hat for her and a pair of strong little boots and she showed her the way downstairs.

"If tha' goes round that way tha'll come to th' gardens," she said, pointing to a gate in a wall of bushes. "There's lots o' flowers in summertime, but there's nothing blooming now." She seemed to hesitate a second before she added, "One of th' gardens is locked up. No one has been in it for ten years."

"Why?" asked Mary in spite of herself. Here was another locked door added to the hundred in the strange house.

"Mr. Craven had it shut when his wife died so suddenly. He won't let no one go inside. It was her garden. He locked th' door an' dug a hole and buried th' key. There's Mrs. Medlock's bell ringing — I must run."

After she was gone Mary turned down the walk which led to the door in the bushes. She could not help thinking about the garden which no one had been into for ten years. She wondered what it would look like and whether there were any flowers still alive in it. When she had passed through the gate in the bushes she found herself in great gardens, with wide lawns and winding paths with cut edges. There were trees, and flower beds, and evergreen bushes cut into strange shapes, and a large pond with an old gray fountain in its middle. But the flower beds were bare and winterish and the fountain was not playing. This was not the garden which was shut up. How could a garden be shut up? You could always walk into a garden.

She was just thinking this when she saw that, at the end of the path she was following, there seemed to be a long wall, with ivy growing over it. She was not familiar enough with England to know that she was coming upon the kitchen gardens where the vegetables and fruit were growing. She went toward the wall and found that there was a green door in the ivy, and that it stood open. This was not the closed garden, clearly, and she could go into it.

She went through the door and found that it was a garden with walls all round it and that it was only one of several walled gardens which seemed to open into one another. She saw another open green door, showing bushes and paths between beds with winter vegetables. Fruit trees were trained flat against the wall, and over some of the beds there were glass frames. The place was bare and ugly enough, Mary thought, as she stood and looked around. It might be nicer in summer when things were green, but there was nothing pretty about it now.

Soon an old man with a spade over his shoulder walked through the door leading from the second garden. He looked surprised when he saw Mary, and then touched his cap. He had an unpleasant old face, and did not seem at all pleased to see her — but then she was displeased with his garden and wore her "quite contrary" expression, and certainly did not seem at all pleased to see him.

"What is this place?" she asked.

"One o' th' kitchen-gardens," he answered.

"What is that?" said Mary, pointing through the other green door.

"Another of 'em," he said shortly. "There's another on t'other side o' th' wall an' there's th' orchard t'other side o' that."

"Can I go in them?" asked Mary.

"If tha' likes. But there's nothing to see."

Mary made no response. She went down the path and through the second green door. There she found more walls and winter vegetables and glass frames, but in the second wall there was another green door and it was not open. Perhaps it led into the garden which no one had seen for ten years. As she was not at all a timid child and always did what she wanted to do, Mary went to the green door and turned the handle. She hoped the door would not open because she wanted to be sure she had found the mysterious garden — but it did open quite easily and she walked through it and found herself in an orchard. There were walls all round it also and trees trained against them, and there were bare fruit trees growing in the winter-brown grass — but there was no green door to be seen anywhere. Mary looked for it, and yet when she had entered the top end of the garden she had noticed that the wall did not seem to end with the orchard but to continue beyond it as if it enclosed a place on the other side. She could see the tops of trees above the wall, and when she stood still she saw a bird with a bright red breast sitting on the topmost branch of one of them, and suddenly he burst into his winter song — almost as if he had caught sight of her and was calling to her.

She stopped and listened to him and somehow his cheerful, friendly little whistle gave her a pleased feeling — even an unpleasant little girl may be lonely, and the big closed house and big bare moor and big bare gardens had made this one feel as if there was no one left in the world but herself. If she had been a loving child, who had been used to being loved, she would have broken her heart, but even though she was "Mistress Mary Quite Contrary" she was miserable, and the bright-breasted little bird brought a look into her sour little face which was almost a smile. She listened to him until he flew away. He was not like an Indian bird and she liked him and wondered if she should ever see him again. Perhaps he lived in the mysterious garden and knew all about it.

Perhaps it was because she had absolutely nothing to do that she thought so much of the deserted garden. She was curious about it and wanted to see what it was like. Why had Mr. Archibald Craven buried the key? If he had liked his wife so much why did he hate her garden? She wondered if she should ever see him, but she knew that if she did she would not like him, and he would not like her, and that she would only stand and stare at him and say nothing, though she would be desperately wanting to ask him why he had done such a strange thing.

"People never like me and I never like people," she thought. "And I never can talk as the Crawford children could. They were always talking and laughing and making noises."

She thought of the robin and of the way he seemed to sing his song at her, and as she remembered the treetop he sat on she stopped rather suddenly on the path.

"I believe that tree was in the secret garden — I feel sure it was," she said. "There was a wall round the place and there was no door."

She walked back into the first kitchen garden she had entered and found the old man digging there. She went and stood beside him and watched him for a few moments in her cold little way. He took no notice of her and so at last she spoke to him.

"I have been into the other gardens," she said.

"There was nothing to stop thee," he answered roughly.

"I went into the orchard."

"There was no dog at th' door to bite thee," he answered.

"There was no door there into the other garden," said Mary.

"What garden?" he said in a rough voice, stopping his digging for a moment.

"The one on the other side of the wall," answered Mistress Mary. "There are trees there — I saw the tops of them. A bird with a red breast was sitting on one of them and he sang."

To her surprise the unpleasant old weathered face actually changed its expression. A slow smile spread over it and the gardener looked quite different. It made her think that it was strange how much nicer a person looked when he smiled. She had not thought of it before.

He turned toward the orchard side of his garden and began to whistle — a low soft whistle. She could not understand how such an unpleasant man could make such a gentle, soft sound.

Almost the next moment a wonderful thing happened. She heard a soft little rushing movement of wings through the air — and it was the bird with the red breast flying to them, and he actually landed on the big clod of earth quite near to the gardener's foot.

"Here he is," chuckled the old man, and then he spoke to the bird as if he were speaking to a child.

"Where has tha' been, tha' cheeky little thing?" he said. "I've not seen thee before today. Has tha' begun tha' courting this early in th' season? Tha'rt too forward."

The bird put his tiny head on one side and looked up at him with his soft bright eye which was like a black dewdrop. He seemed quite comfortable and not the least afraid. He hopped about and pecked the earth quickly, looking for seeds and insects. It actually gave Mary a strange feeling in her heart, because he was so pretty and cheerful and seemed so like a real person. He had a tiny round body and a delicate beak, and slender delicate legs.

"Will he always come when you call him?" she asked almost in a whisper.

"Remembers thee! He knows every cabbage stump in th' gardens, let alone th' people. He's never seen a little girl here before, an' he's set on finding out all about thee. Tha's no need to try to hide anything from him."

"Are things stirring down below in the dark in that garden where he lives?" Mary asked.

"What garden?" grunted Weatherstaff, becoming unpleasant again.

"The one where the old rose-trees are." She could not help asking, because she wanted so much to know. "Are all the flowers dead, or do some of them come again in the summer? Are there ever any roses?"

"Ask him," said Ben Weatherstaff, pointing his shoulder toward the robin. "He's the only one as knows. No one else has seen inside it for ten years."

Ten years was a long time, Mary thought. She had been born ten years ago.

She walked away, slowly thinking. She had begun to like the garden just as she had begun to like the robin and Dickon and Martha's mother. She was beginning to like Martha, too. That seemed a good many people to like — when you were not used to liking. She thought of the robin as one of the people. She went to her walk outside the long, ivy-covered wall over which she could see the treetops. And the second time she walked up and down the most interesting and exciting thing happened to her, and it was all because of Ben Weatherstaff's robin.

She heard a chirp and a twitter, and when she looked at the bare flower bed at her left side there he was hopping about and pretending to pick things out of the earth to make her think he had not followed her. But she knew he had followed her and the surprise so filled her with joy that she almost trembled a little.

"You do remember me!" she cried out. "You do! You are prettier than anything else in the world!"

She chirped, and talked, and coaxed and he hopped, and flirted his tail and twittered. It was as if he were talking. His red waistcoat was like satin and he puffed his tiny breast out and was so fine and so grand and so pretty that it was really as if he were showing her how important and like a human person a robin could be. Mistress Mary forgot that she had ever been contrary in her life when he allowed her to draw closer and closer to him, and bend down and talk and try to make something like robin sounds.

Oh! to think that he should actually let her come as near to him as that! He knew nothing in the world would make her put out her hand toward him or startle him in the least tiniest way. He knew it because he was a real person — only nicer than any other person in the world. She was so happy that she could hardly breathe.

The flower bed was not quite bare. It was bare of flowers because the plants had been cut down for their winter rest, but there were tall bushes and low ones which grew together at the back of the bed, and as the robin hopped about under them she saw him hop over a small pile of freshly turned up earth. He stopped on it to look for a worm. The earth had been turned up because a dog had been trying to dig up a mole and he had scratched quite a deep hole.

Mary looked at it, not really knowing why the hole was there, and as she looked she saw something almost buried in the newly turned soil. It was something like a ring of rusty iron or brass and when the robin flew up into a tree nearby she put out her hand and picked the ring up. It was more than a ring, however. It was an old key which looked as if it had been buried a long time.

Mistress Mary stood up and looked at it with an almost frightened face as it hung from her finger.

"Perhaps it has been buried for ten years," she said in a whisper. "Perhaps it is the key to the garden!"

