
  So far I have been able to copy from the reports which I sent to Sherlock Holmes during those early days. But now I have reached a point in my story where I must stop using that method and rely again on my own memory, helped by the diary I kept at the time. A few parts of that diary will carry me forward to those scenes which are fixed in every detail in my memory forever. I continue from the morning after our failed chase of the convict and our other strange experiences on the moor.

OCTOBER 16TH. A dull and foggy day with a light rain. The house is surrounded by rolling clouds, which rise from time to time to show the sad curves of the moor, with thin silver lines of water on the hillsides, and distant rocks shining where the light touches their wet surfaces. It is gloomy outside and inside. The baronet is in a dark mood after the excitement of the night. I myself feel a heaviness in my heart and a feeling of danger approaching — always present danger, which is more frightening because I cannot say exactly what it is.

And do I not have reason for such a feeling? Think of the long list of events which have all pointed to some dark influence working around us. There is the death of the last owner of the Hall, which matched so exactly the conditions of the family legend. There are the repeated reports from local people about the appearance of a strange creature on the moor. Twice I have heard with my own ears a sound like the distant howling of a hound. It is impossible, unthinkable, that this could truly be outside the natural laws of nature. A ghost hound that leaves real footprints and fills the air with howling is surely not something to believe in. Stapleton may accept such a superstition, and Mortimer also. But if I have one quality on earth it is common sense, and nothing will persuade me to believe in such a thing. To do so would be to come down to the level of these poor local people, who are not satisfied with just a ghost dog but must describe it with fire shooting from its mouth and eyes. Holmes would not listen to such fancies, and I am his representative. But facts are facts, and I have twice heard this crying on the moor. Suppose there really was some huge hound loose upon it — that would go far towards explaining everything. But where could such a hound hide? Where did it get its food? Where did it come from? How was it that no one saw it in the daytime? It must be admitted that the natural explanation offers almost as many difficulties as the supernatural one. And always, apart from the hound, there is the fact of the human activity in London — the man in the cab and the letter that warned Sir Henry against the moor. That at least was real, but it could have been the work of a protecting friend just as easily as an enemy. Where is that friend or enemy now? Has he stayed in London, or has he followed us down here? Could he — could he be the stranger I saw on the rocky hill?

It is true that I had only one quick look at him, and yet there are some things I am prepared to swear to. He is no one I have seen down here, and I have now met all the neighbours. The figure was much taller than Stapleton, much thinner than Frankland. It might possibly have been Barrymore, but we had left him behind us, and I am certain he could not have followed us. A stranger then is still following us, just as a stranger followed us in London. We have never shaken him off. If I could get my hands on that man, then at last we might find ourselves at the end of all our difficulties. To this one purpose I must now give all my energy.

My first thought was to tell Sir Henry all my plans. My second and wiser thought is to play my own game and speak as little as possible to anyone. He is quiet and distracted. His nerves have been strangely shaken by that sound on the moor. I will say nothing to add to his worries, but I will take my own steps to reach my own goal.

We had a small scene this morning after breakfast. Barrymore asked to speak with Sir Henry, and they were shut in his study for quite some time. Sitting in the billiard room I more than once heard the sound of raised voices, and I had a pretty good idea what the subject was. After a while the baronet opened his door and called for me.

"Barrymore thinks he has a complaint," he said. "He thinks it was unfair of us to hunt down his brother-in-law when he had freely told us the secret himself."

The butler was standing very pale but very calm before us.

"I may have spoken too strongly, sir," said he, "and if I have, I am sure I beg your pardon. At the same time, I was very surprised when I heard you two gentlemen come back this morning and learned that you had been chasing Selden. The poor fellow has enough to fight against without my making things harder for him."

"If you had told us of your own free will it would have been a different thing," said the baronet. "You only told us, or rather your wife only told us, when it was forced out of you and you had no choice."

"I didn't think you would take advantage of it, Sir Henry — I really didn't."

"The man is a danger to the public. There are lonely houses scattered across the moor, and he is someone who would stop at nothing. You only need one look at his face to see that. Look at Mr. Stapleton's house, for example, with no one but himself to defend it. There is no safety for anyone until he is locked up."

"He will break into no house, sir. I give you my solemn word on that. But he will never trouble anyone in this area again. I assure you, Sir Henry, that in a very few days the necessary arrangements will have been made and he will be on his way to South America. For God's sake, sir, I beg of you not to let the police know that he is still on the moor. They have given up the search there, and he can stay hidden until the ship is ready for him. You cannot tell on him without getting my wife and me into trouble. I beg you, sir, to say nothing to the police."

"What do you say, Watson?"

I shrugged my shoulders. "If he were safely out of the country it would relieve the taxpayer of a burden."

"But what about the chance of him robbing someone before he goes?"

"He would not do anything so foolish, sir. We have provided him with everything he needs. To commit a crime would be to show where he was hiding."

"That is true," said Sir Henry. "Well, Barrymore —"

"God bless you, sir, and thank you from my heart! It would have killed my poor wife if he had been taken again."

"I suppose we are helping to cover up a crime, Watson. But after what we have heard I don't feel as if I could hand the man over, so that is the end of it. All right, Barrymore, you can go."

With a few broken words of thanks the man turned, but he paused and then came back.

"You have been so kind to us, sir, that I would like to do my best for you in return. I know something, Sir Henry, and perhaps I should have said it before, but it was long after the hearing that I found it out. I have never said a word about it to any living person. It is about poor Sir Charles's death."

The baronet and I both jumped to our feet. "Do you know how he died?"

"No, sir, I don't know that."

"What then?"

"I know why he was at the gate at that hour. It was to meet a woman."

"To meet a woman! He?"

"Yes, sir."

"And the woman's name?"

"I cannot give you the name, sir, but I can give you the initials. Her initials were L. L."

"How do you know this, Barrymore?"

"Well, Sir Henry, your uncle received a letter that morning. He usually had a great many letters, for he was a public figure and well known for his kind heart, so that everyone who was in trouble was glad to turn to him. But that morning, as it happened, there was only this one letter, so I noticed it more. It was from Coombe Tracey, and it was addressed in a woman's handwriting."

"Well?"

"Well, sir, I thought no more of the matter, and never would have done so if it had not been for my wife. Only a few weeks ago she was cleaning out Sir Charles's study — it had never been touched since his death — and she found the remains of a burned letter in the back of the fireplace. Most of it was burned to pieces, but one small piece, the end of a page, held together, and the writing could still be read, though it was grey on a black background. It seemed to be a note at the end of the letter, and it said: 'Please, please, as you are a gentleman, burn this letter, and be at the gate by ten o'clock.' Beneath it were signed the initials L. L."

"Have you got that piece?"

"No, sir, it fell to bits after we moved it."

"Had Sir Charles received any other letters in the same handwriting?"

"Well, sir, I took no particular notice of his letters. I should not have noticed this one, only it happened to come alone."

"And you have no idea who L. L. is?"

"No, sir. No more than you have. But I think that if we could find that lady we would know more about Sir Charles's death."

"I cannot understand, Barrymore, how you managed to hide this important information."

"Well, sir, it was immediately after that our own trouble came to us. And then again, sir, we were both very fond of Sir Charles, as we well might be considering all he had done for us. Bringing this up could not help our poor master, and it is wise to be careful when there is a lady involved. Even the best of us ——"

"You thought it might hurt his reputation?"

"Well, sir, I thought no good could come of it. But now you have been kind to us, and I feel it would be treating you unfairly not to tell you everything I know about the matter."

"Very good, Barrymore; you can go." When the butler had left us Sir Henry turned to me. "Well, Watson, what do you think of this new information?"

"It seems to leave the darkness rather darker than before."

"So I think. But if we can only find L. L. it should clear up the whole business. We have gained that much. We know there is someone who has the facts if we can only find her. What do you think we should do?"

"Let Holmes know all about it at once. It will give him the clue he has been searching for. I would be very surprised if it does not bring him down here."

I went at once to my room and wrote up my report of the morning's conversation for Holmes. It was clear to me that he had been very busy lately, for the notes I had received from Baker Street were few and short, with no comments on the information I had sent and hardly any mention of my mission. No doubt his blackmailing case is taking all his attention. And yet this new development must surely catch his attention and renew his interest. I wish he were here.

OCTOBER 17TH. All day today the rain poured down, running along the ivy and dripping from the roof edges. I thought of the convict out on the bleak, cold, open moor. Poor fellow! Whatever his crimes, he has suffered something to make up for them. And then I thought of that other one — the face in the cab, the figure against the moon. Was he also out in that soaking wet darkness — the unseen watcher, the man of shadows? In the evening I put on my raincoat and I walked far on the wet moor, full of dark thoughts, the rain beating on my face and the wind whistling in my ears. God help those who wander into the great swamp now, for even the firm high ground is becoming muddy and dangerous. I found the black rocky hill on which I had seen the lonely watcher, and from its rough top I looked out myself across the sad moorland. Rain squalls drifted across the brown and russet ground, and the heavy, grey clouds hung low over the landscape, trailing in grey strips down the sides of the strange hills. In the distant hollow to the left, half hidden by the mist, the two thin towers of Baskerville Hall rose above the trees. They were the only signs of human life I could see, except for those ancient stone huts which lay thickly on the hillsides. Nowhere was there any trace of that lonely man I had seen on the same spot two nights before.

As I walked back I was overtaken by Dr. Mortimer driving his small cart along a rough moorland track which led from the distant farmhouse of Foulmire. He has been very attentive to us, and hardly a day has passed without his calling at the Hall to see how we were getting on. He insisted on my climbing into his cart, and he gave me a lift towards home. I found him very upset about the disappearance of his little spaniel dog. It had wandered onto the moor and had never come back. I gave him what comfort I could, but I thought of the pony in the Grimpen Mire, and I do not think he will ever see his little dog again.

"By the way, Mortimer," said I as we jolted along the rough road, "I suppose there are few people living within driving distance of here that you do not know?"

"Hardly any, I think."

"Can you then tell me the name of any woman whose initials are L. L.?"

He thought for a few minutes.

"No," said he. "There are a few travellers and working people I cannot answer for, but among the farmers or upper class there is no one whose initials are those. Wait a moment though," he added after a pause. "There is Laura Lyons — her initials are L. L. — but she lives in Coombe Tracey."

"Who is she?" I asked.

"She is Frankland's daughter."

"What! Old Frankland the difficult one?"

"Exactly. She married an artist named Lyons, who came to paint on the moor. He turned out to be a bad man and left her. From what I hear the fault may not have been entirely on one side. Her father refused to have anything to do with her because she had married without his agreement, and perhaps for one or two other reasons as well. So, between the old sinner and the young one the girl has had a very bad time."

"How does she live?"

"I believe old Frankland gives her a small amount of money, but it cannot be much, for his own affairs are in trouble. Whatever she may have deserved, one could not allow her to go completely to ruin. Her story became known, and several people here did something to help her earn an honest living. Stapleton did so for one, and Sir Charles for another. I myself gave a little. It was to help her set up a typing business."

He wanted to know the reason for my questions, but I managed to satisfy his curiosity without telling him too much, for there is no reason to share our confidence with anyone. Tomorrow morning I shall make my way to Coombe Tracey, and if I can see this Mrs. Laura Lyons, whose reputation is not entirely clear, a big step will have been made towards clearing up one event in this chain of mysteries. I am certainly learning to be clever about what I share, for when Mortimer pressed his questions too far I casually asked him what type of skull Frankland had, and so heard nothing but talk of skulls for the rest of our drive. I have not lived for years with Sherlock Holmes without learning something.

I have only one other thing to record from this stormy and sad day. This was my conversation with Barrymore just now, which gives me one more strong piece of information which I can use at the right time.

Mortimer had stayed to dinner, and he and the baronet played cards afterwards. The butler brought me my coffee in the library, and I took the chance to ask him a few questions.

"Well," said I, "has this precious relation of yours left, or is he still hiding out there?"

"I don't know, sir. I hope to heaven he has gone, for he has brought nothing but trouble here! I have not heard of him since I left food out for him last, and that was three days ago."

"Did you see him then?"

"No, sir, but the food was gone when I next went that way."

"Then he was certainly there?"

"So you would think, sir, unless it was the other man who took it."

I sat with my coffee cup halfway to my lips and stared at Barrymore.

"You know that there is another man then?"

"Yes, sir; there is another man on the moor."

"Have you seen him?"

"No, sir."

"How do you know of him then?"

"Selden told me of him, sir, a week ago or more. He is also in hiding, but he is not a convict as far as I can make out. I don't like it, Dr. Watson — I tell you straight, sir, that I don't like it." He spoke with a sudden strong feeling.

"Now, listen to me, Barrymore! I have no interest in this matter other than that of your master. I came here with no aim except to help him. Tell me, honestly, what it is that you don't like."

Barrymore hesitated for a moment, as if he regretted his outburst, or found it difficult to put his feelings into words.

"It is all these goings-on, sir," he cried at last, waving his hand towards the rain-beaten window that faced the moor. "There is something wrong somewhere, and there is dark trouble coming, I would swear to it! I would be very glad, sir, to see Sir Henry on his way back to London!"

"But what is it that alarms you?"

"Look at Sir Charles's death! That was bad enough, whatever the judge said. Look at the noises on the moor at night. There is not a man who would cross it after dark even for good money. Look at this stranger hiding out there, watching and waiting! What is he waiting for? What does it mean? It means no good to anyone with the name Baskerville, and I shall be very glad to be done with it all on the day that Sir Henry's new servants are ready to take over the Hall."

"But about this stranger," said I. "Can you tell me anything about him? What did Selden say? Did he find out where he hid, or what he was doing?"

"He saw him once or twice, but he is a careful one, and gives nothing away. At first Selden thought that he was the police, but soon he found that he had some other purpose of his own. He seemed to be a kind of gentleman, as far as Selden could see, but what he was doing he could not make out."

"And where did he say he lived?"

"Among the old stone houses on the hillside — the stone huts where the ancient people used to live."

"But how about his food?"

"Selden found out that he has got a boy who works for him and brings him all he needs. I imagine he goes to Coombe Tracey for what he wants."

"Very good, Barrymore. We may talk further of this another time." When the butler had gone I walked over to the dark window and looked through the wet glass at the driving clouds and at the swaying outline of the wind-beaten trees. It is a wild night indoors, and what must it be in a stone hut on the moor? What strong passion of hatred can lead a man to hide in such a place at such a time! And what deep and serious purpose can he have which needs such suffering! There, in that hut on the moor, seems to lie the very centre of the problem which has worried me so greatly. I swear that another day shall not pass before I have done everything that a man can do to reach the heart of the mystery.
