

   Mr. Sherlock Holmes usually got up very late in the mornings, except when he stayed up all night, which happened quite often. He was sitting at the breakfast table. I was standing by the fireplace and picked up the walking stick that our visitor had left behind the night before. It was a thick, nice piece of wood with a round top, the kind called a "Penang lawyer." Just below the top there was a wide silver band, almost one inch across. "To James Mortimer, M.R.C.S., from his friends of the C.C.H." was written on it, with the year "1884." It was exactly the kind of stick that old-fashioned family doctors used to carry — serious, strong, and calming.

"Well, Watson, what do you think of it?"

Holmes was sitting with his back to me, and I had not told him what I was doing.

"How did you know what I was doing? I think you have eyes in the back of your head."

"I have, at least, a well-polished silver coffee-pot in front of me," he said. "But tell me, Watson, what do you think of our visitor's stick? Since we were unlucky enough to miss him and have no idea why he came, this accidental item becomes important. Tell me what you think about the man from looking at it."

"I think," I said, trying to follow my companion's methods, "that Dr. Mortimer is a successful, older doctor who is well respected, since his friends gave him this as a gift."

"Good!" said Holmes. "Excellent!"

"I also think it is likely that he works as a country doctor who does a lot of his visiting on foot."

"Why do you say that?"

"Because this stick, though it was originally a very nice one, has been used so much that I can hardly imagine a city doctor carrying it. The thick iron tip at the bottom is very worn down, so it is clear he has walked a great deal with it."

"Perfectly correct!" said Holmes.

"And then there are the 'friends of the C.C.H.' I would guess that stands for something Hunt, the local hunting group, whose members he may have helped with medical treatment, and who gave him this small gift in return."

"Really, Watson, you are doing very well," said Holmes, pushing back his chair and lighting a cigarette. "I must say that in all the stories you have kindly written about my small achievements, you have regularly underestimated yourself. You may not shine brightly on your own, but you help others to shine. Some people, without having great talent themselves, have a wonderful ability to bring out the best in others. I confess, my dear friend, that I owe you a great deal."

He had never said anything like that before, and I must admit his words made me very happy, because I had often felt hurt by his lack of interest in my admiration and in my efforts to write about his methods. I was also proud to think that I had learned his system well enough to use it in a way that earned his approval. He then took the stick from my hands and looked at it carefully for a few minutes with his eyes only. Then, with a look of interest, he put down his cigarette and carried the stick to the window, where he looked at it again with a curved lens.

"Interesting, though simple," he said as he went back to his favourite corner of the sofa. "There are certainly one or two signs on the stick. They give us a starting point for several conclusions."

"Have I missed anything?" I asked, feeling a little proud of myself. "I hope there is nothing important that I have overlooked?"

"I am afraid, my dear Watson, that most of your conclusions were wrong. When I said you helped me, I meant, to be honest, that by noticing your mistakes I was sometimes guided towards the truth. Not that you are completely wrong this time. The man is certainly a country doctor. And he walks a lot."

"Then I was right."

"To some extent."

"But that was all."

"No, no, my dear Watson, not all — not at all. I would suggest, for example, that a gift to a doctor is more likely to come from a hospital than from a hunting group, and that when the letters 'C.C.' come before 'hospital,' the words 'Charing Cross' come to mind very naturally."

"You may be right."

"That is the most likely answer. And if we use this as a working idea, we have a new starting point to build a picture of this unknown visitor."

"Well then, if 'C.C.H.' does stand for 'Charing Cross Hospital,' what else can we conclude?"

"Do none come to mind? You know my methods. Use them!"

"I can only think of the obvious conclusion that the man worked in the city before going to the country."

"I think we can go a little further than that. Think about it this way. When would such a gift most likely be given? When would his friends come together to give him a sign of their good wishes? Obviously when Dr. Mortimer left the hospital to start his own practice. We know a gift was given. We believe there was a change from a city hospital to a country practice. Is it then going too far to say that the gift was given at the time of that change?"

"That certainly seems likely."

"Now, you will notice that he could not have been a senior doctor at the hospital, since only a man with a well-established London practice could hold such a position, and such a man would not move to the countryside. So what was he? If he was at the hospital but not a senior doctor, he could only have been a house-surgeon or house-physician — not much more than a senior student. And he left five years ago — the date is on the stick. So your serious, middle-aged family doctor disappears, my dear Watson, and what appears instead is a young man under thirty, friendly, without big ambitions, absent-minded, and the owner of a favourite dog, which I would say is bigger than a terrier but smaller than a mastiff."

I laughed with disbelief as Sherlock Holmes leaned back on his sofa and blew small rings of smoke up to the ceiling.

"As for the last part, I have no way to check you," I said, "but at least it is not hard to find a few details about the man's age and career." From my small shelf of medical books I took down the Medical Directory and found his name. There were several Mortimers, but only one who could be our visitor. I read his details aloud.

"Mortimer, James, M.R.C.S., 1882, Grimpen, Dartmoor, Devon. House-surgeon, from 1882 to 1884, at Charing Cross Hospital. Winner of the Jackson prize for Comparative Pathology, with an essay called 'Is Disease a Reversion?' Corresponding member of the Swedish Pathological Society. Author of 'Some Freaks of Atavism' (Lancet 1882). 'Do We Progress?' (Journal of Psychology, March, 1883). Medical Officer for the villages of Grimpen, Thorsley, and High Barrow."

"No mention of that local hunt, Watson," said Holmes with a playful smile, "but a country doctor, as you very cleverly noticed. I think my conclusions were quite right. As for the describing words, I said, if I remember correctly, friendly, not ambitious, and absent-minded. In my experience, only a friendly man receives gifts like this, only a man without big ambitions leaves London for the countryside, and only an absent-minded man leaves his stick instead of his visiting card after waiting an hour in your room."

"And the dog?"

"Has been in the habit of carrying this stick behind his master. Because it is a heavy stick, the dog held it tightly in the middle, and the marks of his teeth are very clearly visible. The space between the marks shows the dog's jaw is too wide for a terrier but not wide enough for a mastiff. It may have been — yes, indeed, it is a curly-haired spaniel."

He had stood up and walked around the room while he spoke. Now he stopped by the window. There was such certainty in his voice that I looked up in surprise.

"My dear friend, how can you possibly be so sure of that?"

"For the very simple reason that I can see the dog himself on our doorstep right now, and there is the ring of his owner. Please don't move, Watson. He is a fellow doctor, and your presence may help me. This is the important moment, Watson, when you hear a step on the stairs walking into your life, and you do not know if it will be good or bad. What does Dr. James Mortimer, the man of science, want from Sherlock Holmes, the specialist in crime? Come in!"

The appearance of our visitor surprised me, because I had expected a typical country doctor. He was a very tall, thin man, with a long beak-like nose between two sharp gray eyes set close together and shining brightly from behind gold-rimmed glasses. He was dressed in a professional but rather untidy way, as his coat was dirty and his trousers were frayed at the ends. Although he was young, his long back was already bent forward, and he walked with his head pushed out and a general air of kind curiosity. As he entered, his eyes landed on the stick in Holmes's hand and he ran towards it with a happy cry. "I am so very glad," he said. "I was not sure whether I had left it here or at the Shipping Office. I would not lose that stick for anything."

"A gift, I see," said Holmes.

"Yes, sir."

"From Charing Cross Hospital?"

"From one or two friends there, when I got married."

"Dear, dear, that is a problem!" said Holmes, shaking his head.

Dr. Mortimer blinked through his glasses with mild surprise.

"Why was it a problem?"

"Only that you have changed our small conclusions. Your marriage, you say?"

"Yes, sir. I got married, and so I left the hospital, and with it all hopes of a consulting practice in the city. I needed to make a home of my own."

"Come, come, we are not so far wrong after all," said Holmes. "And now, Dr. James Mortimer —"

"Mister, sir, Mister — a humble M.R.C.S."

"And a man who is careful with details, clearly."

"A person who dabbles in science, Mr. Holmes, picking up shells on the shore of the great unknown ocean. I believe I am addressing Mr. Sherlock Holmes and not —"

"No, this is my friend Dr. Watson."

"Glad to meet you, sir. I have heard your name mentioned together with that of your friend. You interest me very much, Mr. Holmes. I had hardly expected such a long skull or such well-marked eyebrow ridges. Would you have any objection to my running my finger along your skull? A copy of your skull, sir, until the real thing is available, would be an ornament to any anthropology museum. I do not mean to be excessive, but I confess that I would love to have your skull."

Sherlock Holmes waved our strange visitor to a chair. "You are an enthusiast in your area of interest, I can see, sir, as I am in mine," he said. "I can tell from your index finger that you make your own cigarettes. Please feel free to light one."

The man took out paper and tobacco and rolled one up with surprising skill. He had long, moving fingers as quick and restless as an insect's antennae.

Holmes was quiet, but his quick little glances showed me the interest he took in our unusual companion.

"I suppose, sir," he said at last, "that it was not only to examine my skull that you did me the honour of calling here last night and again today?"

"No, sir, no; though I am happy to have had the chance to do that as well. I came to you, Mr. Holmes, because I know that I am not a practical man, and because I am suddenly facing a very serious and unusual problem. I know that you are the second highest expert in Europe —"

"Indeed, sir! May I ask who has the honour to be the first?" asked Holmes, a little sharply.

"To the truly scientific mind, the work of Monsieur Bertillon must always be very appealing."

"Then would you not be better to consult him?"

"I said, sir, to the truly scientific mind. But as a practical man of action, it is accepted that you are without equal. I hope, sir, that I have not accidentally —"

"Just a little," said Holmes. "I think, Dr. Mortimer, you would be wise if you stopped talking around the subject and told me plainly what the exact nature of the problem is for which you need my help."

