
  For a moment or two I sat breathless, hardly able to believe my ears. Then my senses and my voice came back to me, while a heavy weight of responsibility seemed in an instant to be lifted from my soul. That cold, sharp, ironic voice could belong to only one man in all the world.

"Holmes!" I cried — "Holmes!"

"Come out," said he, "and please be careful with the gun."

I bent under the rough doorframe, and there he sat upon a stone outside, his grey eyes dancing with amusement as they fell upon my astonished face. He was thin and worn, but clear and sharp, his keen face browned by the sun and roughened by the wind. In his tweed suit and cloth cap he looked like any other tourist on the moor, and he had managed, with that cat-like love of personal neatness which was one of his characteristics, to have his chin as smooth and his clothes as clean as if he were in Baker Street.

"I was never more glad to see anyone in my life," said I, as I shook him by the hand.

"Or more surprised, eh?"

"Well, I must admit it."

"The surprise was not all on one side, I assure you. I had no idea that you had found my occasional hiding place, still less that you were inside it, until I was within twenty steps of the door."

"My footprint, I suppose?"

"No, Watson; I fear that I could not recognize your footprint among all the footprints of the world. If you seriously want to deceive me you must change your tobacconist; for when I see the end of a cigarette marked Bradley, Oxford Street, I know that my friend Watson is in the neighbourhood. You will see it there beside the path. You threw it down, no doubt, at that important moment when you rushed into the empty hut."

"Exactly."

"I thought as much — and knowing your admirable determination I was certain that you were sitting in hiding, a weapon within reach, waiting for the owner to return. So you actually thought that I was the criminal?"

"I did not know who you were, but I was determined to find out."

"Excellent, Watson! And how did you find me? You saw me, perhaps, on the night of the convict hunt, when I was so unwise as to allow the moon to rise behind me?"

"Yes, I saw you then."

"And no doubt searched all the huts until you came to this one?"

"No, your boy had been seen, and that gave me a guide where to look."

"The old gentleman with the telescope, no doubt. I could not make it out when I first saw the light reflecting off the lens." He rose and looked into the hut. "Ah, I see that Cartwright has brought up some supplies. What is this paper? So you have been to Coombe Tracey, have you?"

"Yes."

"To see Mrs. Laura Lyons?"

"Exactly."

"Well done! Our work has evidently been running along the same lines, and when we put our results together I expect we shall have a fairly full knowledge of the case."

"Well, I am glad from my heart that you are here, for indeed the responsibility and the mystery were both becoming too much for my nerves. But how on earth did you come here, and what have you been doing? I thought that you were in Baker Street working out that blackmailing case."

"That was what I wished you to think."

"Then you use me, and yet do not trust me!" I cried with some bitterness. "I think that I have deserved better at your hands, Holmes."

"My dear fellow, you have been of great value to me in this as in many other cases, and I beg that you will forgive me if I have seemed to play a trick upon you. In truth, it was partly for your own sake that I did it, and it was my recognition of the danger you were running which led me to come down and examine the matter for myself. Had I been with Sir Henry and you it is certain that my point of view would have been the same as yours, and my presence would have warned our very dangerous opponents to be on their guard. As it is, I have been able to move about as I could not possibly have done had I been living in the Hall, and I remain an unknown factor in the business, ready to put all my weight in at a critical moment."

"But why keep me in the dark?"

"For you to know could not have helped us, and might possibly have led to my discovery. You would have wanted to tell me something, or in your kindness you would have brought me some comfort or other, and so an unnecessary risk would be run. I brought Cartwright down with me — you remember the little fellow at the post office — and he has seen after my simple needs: a loaf of bread and a clean shirt. What more does a man want? He has given me an extra pair of eyes on a very active pair of feet, and both have been of great value."

"Then my reports have all been wasted!" My voice trembled as I recalled the pains and the pride with which I had written them.

Holmes took a bundle of papers from his pocket.

"Here are your reports, my dear fellow, and very well read, I assure you. I made excellent arrangements, and they are only delayed one day on their way. I must compliment you very highly on the great effort and the intelligence which you have shown over an extraordinarily difficult case."

I was still rather sore about the deception which had been practised on me, but the warmth of Holmes's praise drove my anger from my mind. I also felt in my heart that he was right in what he said and that it was really best for our purpose that I should not have known that he was on the moor.

"That's better," said he, seeing the unhappiness leave my face. "And now tell me the result of your visit to Mrs. Laura Lyons — it was not difficult for me to guess that it was to see her that you had gone, for I am already aware that she is the one person in Coombe Tracey who might be of service to us in this matter. In fact, if you had not gone today it is very probable that I should have gone tomorrow."

The sun had set and dusk was settling over the moor. The air had turned cold and we moved into the hut for warmth. There, sitting together in the fading light, I told Holmes of my conversation with the lady. He was so interested that I had to repeat some of it twice before he was satisfied.

"This is most important," said he when I had finished. "It fills a gap which I had been unable to close in this very complex affair. You are aware, perhaps, that a close friendship exists between this lady and the man Stapleton?"

"I did not know of a close friendship."

"There can be no doubt about the matter. They meet, they write, there is a complete understanding between them. Now, this puts a very powerful weapon into our hands. If I could only use it to separate his wife from him ——"

"His wife?"

"I am giving you some information now, in return for all that you have given me. The lady who has been here as Miss Stapleton is in reality his wife."

"Good heavens, Holmes! Are you sure of this? How could he have allowed Sir Henry to fall in love with her?"

"Sir Henry falling in love could do no harm to anyone except Sir Henry. He took particular care that Sir Henry did not make advances to her, as you have yourself noticed. I repeat that the lady is his wife and not his sister."

"But why this elaborate trick?"

"Because he foresaw that she would be very much more useful to him as a free woman."

All my unspoken feelings, my vague suspicions, suddenly took shape and centred upon the nature collector. In that still, colourless man, with his straw hat and his butterfly net, I seemed to see something terrible — a creature of endless patience and cleverness, with a smiling face and a murderous heart.

"It is he, then, who is our enemy — it is he who followed us in London?"

"That is how I read it."

"And the warning — it must have come from her!"

"Exactly."

The shape of some great evil, half seen and half guessed, appeared through the darkness which had surrounded me for so long.

"But are you sure of this, Holmes? How do you know that the woman is his wife?"

"Because he so far forgot himself as to tell you a true piece of his personal history when he first met you, and I dare say he has regretted it many times since. He was once a schoolmaster in the north of England. Now, there is no one more easy to trace than a schoolmaster. There are educational agencies by which one may identify any man who has been in the profession. A little investigation showed me that a school had failed under terrible circumstances, and that the man who had owned it — the name was different — had disappeared with his wife. The descriptions matched. When I learned that the missing man was passionate about studying insects the identification was complete."

The darkness was growing, but much was still hidden by the shadows.

"If this woman is truly his wife, where does Mrs. Laura Lyons fit in?" I asked.

"That is one of the points on which your own work has shed some light. Your meeting with the lady has made the situation much clearer. I did not know about a planned divorce between herself and her husband. In that case, believing Stapleton to be an unmarried man, she no doubt counted on becoming his wife."

"And when she discovers the truth?"

"Then we may find the lady of service to us. We must make it our first duty to see her — both of us — tomorrow. Don't you think, Watson, that you have been away from your duty rather long? Your place should be at Baskerville Hall."

The last red streaks had faded in the west and night had settled on the moor. A few faint stars were shining in a purple sky.

"One last question, Holmes," I said, as I rose. "Surely there is no need for secrets between you and me. What is the meaning of it all? What does he want?"

Holmes's voice dropped as he answered:

"It is murder, Watson — careful, cold-blooded, deliberate murder. Do not ask me for details. My trap is closing upon him, even as his is closing upon Sir Henry, and with your help he is already almost within my power. There is but one danger which can threaten us. It is that he should strike before we are ready to do so. Another day — two at the most — and I have my case complete, but until then guard your charge as closely as ever a loving mother watched her sick child. Your mission today has proved its worth, and yet I could almost wish that you had not left his side. Listen!"

A terrible scream — a long cry of horror and pain — burst out of the silence of the moor. That dreadful cry turned the blood to ice in my veins.

"Oh, my God!" I gasped. "What is it? What does it mean?"

Holmes had sprung to his feet, and I saw his dark, strong outline at the door of the hut, his shoulders bent, his head thrust forward, his face searching the darkness.

"Quiet!" he whispered. "Quiet!"

The cry had been loud because of its power, but it had come from far off on the dark plain. Now it broke upon our ears, nearer, louder, more urgent than before.

"Where is it?" Holmes whispered; and I knew from the shake in his voice that he, the man of iron, was shaken to his core. "Where is it, Watson?"

"There, I think." I pointed into the darkness.

"No, there!"

Again the agonized cry swept through the silent night, louder and much nearer than ever. And a new sound joined it, a deep, low rumble, musical and yet threatening, rising and falling like the low, constant murmur of the sea.

"The hound!" cried Holmes. "Come, Watson, come! Great heavens, if we are too late!"

He had started running swiftly over the moor, and I followed at his heels. But now from somewhere among the broken ground immediately in front of us there came one last desperate cry, and then a dull, heavy thud. We stopped and listened. Not another sound broke the heavy silence of the still night.

I saw Holmes put his hand to his forehead like a man in despair. He stamped his feet upon the ground.

"He has beaten us, Watson. We are too late."

"No, no, surely not!"

"Fool that I was to wait. And you, Watson, see what comes of leaving your post! But, by heaven, if the worst has happened, we will get revenge!"

Blindly we ran through the darkness, bumping against boulders, forcing our way through gorse bushes, panting up hills and rushing down slopes, always heading in the direction from which those dreadful sounds had come. At every rise Holmes looked eagerly around him, but the shadows were thick on the moor, and nothing moved across its sad face.

"Can you see anything?"

"Nothing."

"But, listen, what is that?"

A low moan had reached our ears. There it was again, on our left! On that side a line of rocks ended in a steep cliff which looked down over a stone-covered slope. On its rough face was spread some dark, irregular shape. As we ran towards it the vague outline became a clear shape. It was a man face downward on the ground, the head doubled under him at a horrible angle, the shoulders rounded and the body huddled together as if in the act of tumbling forward. So strange was the position that I could not for that instant realize that that moan had been the passing of his soul. Not a whisper, not a rustle, rose now from the dark figure over which we stood. Holmes laid his hand upon him, and held it up again, with a cry of horror. The light of the match he struck shone upon his wet fingers and upon the terrible pool which widened slowly from the crushed skull of the victim. And it shone upon something else which made our hearts sick and faint — the body of Sir Henry Baskerville!

There was no chance of either of us forgetting that particular reddish brown tweed suit — the very one which he had worn on the first morning that we had seen him in Baker Street. We caught one clear glimpse of it, and then the match flickered and went out, even as the hope had gone out of our souls. Holmes groaned, and his face showed white through the darkness.

"The brute! the brute!" I cried with clenched hands. "Oh Holmes, I shall never forgive myself for having left him to his fate."

"I am more to blame than you, Watson. In order to have my case complete and well rounded, I have thrown away the life of my client. It is the greatest blow which has fallen on me in my career. But how could I know — how could I know — that he would risk his life alone on the moor in spite of all my warnings?"

"That we should have heard his screams — my God, those screams! — and yet have been unable to save him! Where is this terrible hound which drove him to his death? It may be lurking among these rocks at this very moment. And Stapleton, where is he? He shall answer for this deed."

"He shall. I will see to that. Uncle and nephew have been murdered — the one frightened to death by the very sight of a beast he believed to be supernatural, the other driven to his end in his wild flight to escape from it. But now we have to prove the connection between the man and the beast. Except for what we heard, we cannot even prove the existence of the animal, since Sir Henry evidently died from the fall. But, by heavens, clever as he is, the fellow shall be in my power before another day is past!"

We stood with bitter hearts on either side of the broken body, overwhelmed by this sudden and permanent disaster which had brought all our long and exhausting work to so sad an end. Then, as the moon rose we climbed to the top of the rocks over which our poor friend had fallen, and from the top we looked out over the shadowy moor, half silver and half dark. Far away, miles off, in the direction of Grimpen, a single steady yellow light was shining. It could only come from the lonely home of the Stapletons. With a bitter curse I shook my fist at it as I stared.

"Why should we not seize him at once?"

"Our case is not complete. The man is careful and clever to the last degree. It is not what we know, but what we can prove. If we make one false move the villain may yet escape us."

"What can we do?"

"There will be plenty for us to do tomorrow. Tonight we can only perform the last duties for our poor friend."

Together we made our way down the steep slope and approached the body, black and clear against the silver-lit stones. The pain of those twisted arms struck me with a spasm of suffering and blurred my eyes with tears.

"We must send for help, Holmes! We cannot carry him all the way to the Hall. Good heavens, are you mad?"

He had given a cry and bent over the body. Now he was dancing and laughing and shaking my hand. Could this be my serious, self-controlled friend? These were hidden fires indeed!

"A beard! A beard! The man has a beard!"

"A beard?"

"It is not the baronet — it is — why, it is my neighbour, the convict!"

With excited haste we had turned the body over, and that wet beard was pointing up to the cold, clear moon. There could be no doubt about the heavy forehead, the deep-set animal eyes. It was indeed the same face which had stared at me in the light of the candle from over the rock — the face of Selden, the criminal.

Then in an instant it was all clear to me. I remembered how the baronet had told me that he had given his old clothes to Barrymore. Barrymore had passed them on to help Selden in his escape. Boots, shirt, cap — it was all Sir Henry's. The tragedy was still dark enough, but this man had at least deserved death by the laws of his country. I told Holmes how the matter stood, my heart full of thankfulness and joy.

"Then the clothes have been the poor devil's death," said he. "It is clear enough that the hound has been set on from some article of Sir Henry's — the boot which was taken from the hotel, in all probability — and so ran this man down. There is one very strange thing, however: how did Selden, in the darkness, know that the hound was on his trail?"

"He heard him."

"To hear a hound on the moor would not drive a tough man like this convict into such a state of terror that he would risk recapture by screaming wildly for help. By his cries he must have run a long way after he knew the animal was on his track. How did he know?"

"A greater mystery to me is why this hound, assuming that all our guesses are correct —"

"I assume nothing."

"Well, then, why this hound should be running free tonight. I suppose that it does not always run free on the moor. Stapleton would not let it go unless he had reason to think that Sir Henry would be there."

"My difficulty is the greater of the two, for I think that we shall very shortly get an explanation of yours, while mine may remain a mystery forever. The question now is, what shall we do with this poor man's body? We cannot leave it here for the wild animals."

"I suggest that we put it in one of the huts until we can contact the police."

"Exactly. I have no doubt that you and I could carry it that far. Halloa, Watson, what is this? It is the man himself, by all that is wonderful! Not a word to show your suspicions — not a word, or my plans fall apart."

A figure was approaching us across the moor, and I saw the dull red glow of a cigar. The moon shone upon him, and I could make out the neat shape and easy walk of the nature collector. He stopped when he saw us, and then came on again.

"Why, Dr. Watson, that is not you, is it? You are the last man that I should have expected to see out on the moor at this time of night. But, dear me, what is this? Somebody hurt? Not — do not tell me that it is our friend Sir Henry!" He hurried past me and bent over the dead man. I heard a sharp intake of breath and the cigar fell from his fingers.

"Who — who is this?" he said, stumbling over the words.

"It is Selden, the man who escaped from Princetown."

Stapleton turned a white face upon us, but with a great effort he had controlled his amazement and his disappointment. He looked sharply from Holmes to me.

"Dear me! What a very shocking affair! How did he die?"

"He appears to have broken his neck by falling over these rocks. My friend and I were walking on the moor when we heard a cry."

"I heard a cry also. That was what brought me out. I was uneasy about Sir Henry."

"Why about Sir Henry in particular?" I could not help asking.

"Because I had suggested that he should come over. When he did not come I was surprised, and I naturally became worried for his safety when I heard cries on the moor. By the way" — his eyes darted again from my face to Holmes's — "did you hear anything else besides a cry?"

"No," said Holmes; "did you?"

"No."

"What do you mean, then?"

"Oh, you know the stories that the local people tell about a ghost hound, and so on. It is said to be heard at night on the moor. I was wondering if there was any sign of such a sound tonight."

"We heard nothing of the kind," said I.

"And what is your theory of this poor fellow's death?"

"I have no doubt that worry and cold have driven him out of his mind. He has rushed about the moor in a confused state and eventually fallen over here and broken his neck."

"That seems the most reasonable theory," said Stapleton, and he gave a sigh which I took to show his relief. "What do you think about it, Mr. Sherlock Holmes?"

My friend nodded politely.

"You are quick at knowing people," said he.

"We have been expecting you in these parts since Dr. Watson came down. You are in time to see a tragedy."

"Yes, indeed. I have no doubt that my friend's explanation covers the facts. I will take an unpleasant memory back to London with me tomorrow."

"Oh, you return tomorrow?"

"That is my intention."

"I hope your visit has thrown some light upon those events which have puzzled us?"

Holmes shrugged his shoulders.

"One cannot always have the success one hopes for. An investigator needs facts, and not legends or rumours. It has not been a satisfactory case."

My friend spoke in his most open and relaxed manner. Stapleton still looked hard at him. Then he turned to me.

"I would suggest carrying this poor fellow to my house, but it would give my sister such a fright that I do not feel I should do it. I think that if we put something over his face he will be safe until morning."

And so it was arranged. Refusing Stapleton's offer of hospitality, Holmes and I set off to Baskerville Hall, leaving the nature collector to return alone. Looking back we saw the figure moving slowly away over the wide moor, and behind him that one black shape on the silver-lit slope which showed where the man lay who had come to such a horrible end.
