
  The extract from my private diary which formed the last chapter has brought my story up to the 18th of October, a time when these strange events began to move quickly towards their terrible end. The events of the next few days are fixed permanently in my memory, and I can describe them without looking at the notes I made at the time. I start then from the day after I had established two very important facts: one, that Mrs. Laura Lyons of Coombe Tracey had written to Sir Charles Baskerville and arranged a meeting with him at the exact place and hour of his death; the other, that the hiding man on the moor could be found among the stone huts on the hillside. With these two facts in my possession I felt that either my intelligence or my courage must be failing if I could not throw some further light on these dark matters.

I had no chance to tell the baronet what I had learned about Mrs. Lyons the previous evening, for Dr. Mortimer stayed with him playing cards until very late. At breakfast, however, I told him about my discovery and asked him whether he would like to come with me to Coombe Tracey. At first he was very eager to come, but on thinking again it seemed to both of us that if I went alone the results might be better. The more formal we made the visit the less information we might get. I left Sir Henry behind, therefore, not without some uneasiness, and drove off on my new search.

When I reached Coombe Tracey I told Perkins to look after the horses, and I asked for the lady I had come to question. I had no difficulty finding her rooms, which were central and well set up. A maid showed me in without ceremony, and as I entered the sitting room a lady who was sitting in front of a typewriter jumped up with a pleasant welcoming smile. Her face fell, however, when she saw that I was a stranger, and she sat down again and asked me what I wanted.

My first impression of Mrs. Lyons was one of great beauty. Her eyes and hair were of the same rich brown colour, and her cheeks, though quite freckled, were flushed with the lovely colour of a dark-skinned woman, the delicate pink which one finds at the heart of a pale rose. Admiration was, I repeat, the first impression. But the second was criticism. There was something slightly wrong with the face, some roughness of expression, some hardness perhaps in the eyes, some looseness about the lips which spoiled its perfect beauty. But these, of course, are later thoughts. At that moment I was simply aware that I was in the presence of a very attractive woman, and that she was asking me the reasons for my visit. I had not quite understood until that instant how delicate my task was.

"I have the pleasure," said I, "of knowing your father." It was a clumsy opening, and the lady made me feel it.

"There is nothing in common between my father and me," she said. "I owe him nothing, and his friends are not mine. If it were not for the late Sir Charles Baskerville and some other kind people I might have starved for all my father cared."

"It was about the late Sir Charles Baskerville that I have come to see you."

Colour spread across the lady's face.

"What can I tell you about him?" she asked, and her fingers moved nervously over the keys of her typewriter.

"You knew him, did you not?"

"I have already said that I owe a great deal to his kindness. If I am able to support myself it is largely due to the interest he took in my unhappy situation."

"Did you write to him?"

The lady looked up quickly with an angry flash in her brown eyes.

"What is the purpose of these questions?" she asked sharply.

"The purpose is to avoid a public scandal. It is better that I should ask them here than that the matter should go beyond our control."

She was silent and her face was still very pale. At last she looked up with something reckless and challenging in her manner.

"Very well, I'll answer," she said. "What are your questions?"

"Did you write to Sir Charles?"

"I certainly wrote to him once or twice to thank him for his kindness and his generosity."

"Have you the dates of those letters?"

"No."

"Have you ever met him?"

"Yes, once or twice, when he came into Coombe Tracey. He was a very private man, and he preferred to do good quietly."

"But if you saw him so rarely and wrote so rarely, how did he know enough about your affairs to be able to help you, as you say he did?"

She answered my difficulty immediately.

"There were several gentlemen who knew my sad story and joined together to help me. One was Mr. Stapleton, a neighbour and close friend of Sir Charles's. He was extremely kind, and it was through him that Sir Charles learned about my affairs."

I already knew that Sir Charles Baskerville had made Stapleton his helper in giving to charity on several occasions, so the lady's statement seemed true.

"Did you ever write to Sir Charles asking him to meet you?" I continued.

Mrs. Lyons flushed with anger again.

"Really, sir, this is a very strange question."

"I am sorry, madam, but I must repeat it."

"Then I answer, certainly not."

"Not on the very day of Sir Charles's death?"

The colour vanished from her face in an instant, and a deathly white face was before me. Her dry lips could not speak the "No" which I saw rather than heard.

"Surely your memory is wrong," said I. "I could even quote a part of your letter. It said: 'Please, please, as you are a gentleman, burn this letter, and be at the gate by ten o'clock.'"

I thought that she had fainted, but she recovered herself with a great effort.

"Is there no such thing as a gentleman?" she gasped.

"You are being unfair to Sir Charles. He did burn the letter. But sometimes a letter may still be readable even when burned. You admit now that you wrote it?"

"Yes, I did write it," she cried, pouring out her feelings in a rush of words. "I did write it. Why should I deny it? I have no reason to be ashamed of it. I wished him to help me. I believed that if I had a meeting I could gain his help, so I asked him to meet me."

"But why at such an hour?"

"Because I had only just learned that he was going to London next day and might be away for months. There were reasons why I could not get there earlier."

"But why a meeting in the garden instead of a visit to the house?"

"Do you think a woman could go alone at that hour to a single man's house?"

"Well, what happened when you did get there?"

"I never went."

"Mrs. Lyons!"

"No, I swear it to you on everything I hold sacred. I never went. Something happened to prevent my going."

"What was that?"

"That is a private matter. I cannot tell it."

"You admit then that you arranged a meeting with Sir Charles at the very hour and place of his death, but you deny that you kept the arrangement."

"That is the truth."

Again and again I questioned her, but I could never get past that point.

"Mrs. Lyons," said I, as I rose from this long and unsatisfying interview, "you are taking a very great risk and putting yourself in a very bad position by not telling everything you know. If I have to call in the help of the police you will find how seriously you are involved. If your position is innocent, why did you at first deny having written to Sir Charles on that date?"

"Because I was afraid that some wrong conclusion might be drawn from it and that I might find myself caught up in a scandal."

"And why were you so anxious that Sir Charles should destroy your letter?"

"If you have read the letter you will know."

"I did not say that I had read all the letter."

"You quoted some of it."

"I quoted the note at the end. The letter had, as I said, been burned and was not all readable. I ask you once again why you were so anxious that Sir Charles should destroy this letter which he received on the day of his death."

"The matter is a very private one."

"The more reason why you should avoid a public investigation."

"I will tell you, then. If you have heard anything of my unhappy history you will know that I made a hasty marriage and had reason to regret it."

"I have heard so much."

"My life has been one constant suffering from a husband whom I hate. The law is on his side, and every day I face the possibility that he may force me to live with him. At the time that I wrote this letter to Sir Charles I had learned that there was a chance of getting my freedom if certain costs could be met. It meant everything to me — peace of mind, happiness, self-respect — everything. I knew Sir Charles's generosity, and I thought that if he heard the story from my own lips he would help me."

"Then how is it that you did not go?"

"Because I received help in the time between from another source."

"Why then did you not write to Sir Charles and explain this?"

"So I should have done if I had not seen news of his death in the newspaper the next morning."

The woman's story held together well, and all my questions were unable to shake it. I could only check it by finding whether she had indeed started divorce proceedings against her husband at or about the time of the tragedy.

It was unlikely that she would dare to say that she had not been to Baskerville Hall if she really had been, for a horse and carriage would have been needed to take her there, and it could not have returned to Coombe Tracey until the early hours of the morning. Such a trip could not be kept secret. The probability was, therefore, that she was telling the truth, or at least part of the truth. I came away confused and discouraged. Once again I had reached that same dead wall which seemed to be built across every path by which I tried to get at the object of my mission. And yet the more I thought of the lady's face and her manner the more I felt that something was being kept back from me. Why should she have turned so pale? Why should she have fought against every admission until it was forced from her? Why should she have been so silent at the time of the tragedy? Surely the explanation of all this could not be as innocent as she would have me believe. For the moment I could go no further in that direction, but must turn back to that other clue which was to be found among the stone huts on the moor.

And that was a very vague direction. I realized it as I drove back and noticed how hill after hill showed signs of the ancient people. Barrymore's only information had been that the stranger lived in one of these abandoned huts, and many hundreds of them are scattered across the length and breadth of the moor. But I had my own experience as a guide since it had shown me the man himself standing on top of the Black rocky hill. That then should be the centre of my search. From there I should explore every hut on the moor until I found the right one. If this man were inside it I should find out from his own lips, at the point of my gun if necessary, who he was and why he had been following us for so long. He might slip away from us in the crowds of Regent Street, but it would be difficult for him to do so on the lonely moor. On the other hand, if I should find the hut and its occupant was not there I must remain there, however long the wait, until he returned. Holmes had missed him in London. It would indeed be a great achievement for me if I could track him down where my master had failed.

Luck had been against us again and again in this case, but now at last it came to my aid. And the bringer of good fortune was none other than Mr. Frankland, who was standing, grey-whiskered and red-faced, outside the gate of his garden, which opened onto the main road along which I was travelling.

"Good day, Dr. Watson," he cried with unusual good humour. "You must really give your horses a rest, and come in to have a glass of wine and congratulate me."

My feelings towards him were very far from friendly after what I had heard of his treatment of his daughter, but I was anxious to send Perkins and the carriage home, and this was a good opportunity. I got down and sent a message to Sir Henry that I would walk over in time for dinner. Then I followed Frankland into his dining room.

"It is a great day for me, sir — one of the best days of my life," he cried with much laughter. "I have won two cases at once. I mean to teach them in these parts that law is law, and that there is a man here who does not fear to use it. I have established a right of way through the centre of old Middleton's park, right across it, sir, within a hundred yards of his own front door. What do you think of that? We'll teach these powerful people that they cannot ride over the rights of ordinary people! And I have closed the wood where the Fernworthy folk used to come for picnics. These terrible people seem to think that there are no rights of property, and that they can go wherever they like with their papers and their bottles. Both cases decided, Dr. Watson, and both in my favour. I haven't had such a day since I had Sir John Morland for trespassing, because he shot in his own rabbit warren."

"How on earth did you do that?"

"Look it up in the records, sir. It will be worth reading — Frankland v. Morland, Court of Queen's Bench. It cost me 200 pounds, but I got my verdict."

"Did it do you any good?"

"None, sir, none. I am proud to say that I had no personal interest in the matter. I act entirely from a sense of public duty. I have no doubt, for example, that the Fernworthy people will burn me in figure tonight. I told the police last time they did it that they should stop these disgraceful shows. The County Police is in a terrible state, sir, and it has not given me the protection I have a right to. The case of Frankland v. Regina will bring the matter to the attention of the public. I told them that they would have cause to regret their treatment of me, and already my words have come true."

"How so?" I asked.

The old man put on a very knowing expression.

"Because I could tell them what they are dying to know; but nothing would make me help those rascals in any way."

I had been looking for some excuse to get away from his gossip, but now I began to wish to hear more of it. I had seen enough of the contrary nature of the old man to understand that any strong sign of interest would be the surest way to stop him talking. 

"Some poaching case, no doubt?" said I, with an indifferent manner.

"Ha, ha, my boy, a very much more important matter than that! What about the convict on the moor?"

I started. "You don't mean that you know where he is?" said I.

"I may not know exactly where he is, but I am quite sure that I could help the police to find him. Has it never struck you that the way to catch that man was to find out where he got his food, and so trace it to him?"

He certainly seemed to be getting uncomfortably close to the truth. "No doubt," said I; "but how do you know that he is anywhere on the moor?"

"I know it because I have seen with my own eyes the person who takes him his food."

My heart sank for Barrymore. It was a serious thing to be in the power of this spiteful old busybody. But his next remark lifted a weight from my mind.

"You will be surprised to hear that his food is taken to him by a child. I see him every day through my telescope on the roof. He passes along the same path at the same hour, and to whom should he be going except to the convict?"

What luck! And yet I showed no sign of interest. A child! Barrymore had said that our unknown man was supplied by a boy. It was the boy's track, and not the convict's, that Frankland had discovered. If I could get his information it might save me a long and tiring search. But doubt and indifference were clearly my strongest weapons.

"I would say that it was much more likely that it was the son of one of the moorland shepherds taking out his father's dinner."

The least sign of opposition brought fire from the old man. His eyes looked at me with ill feeling, and his grey whiskers bristled like those of an angry cat.

"Indeed, sir!" said he, pointing out over the wide-spreading moor. "Do you see that Black rocky hill over there? Well, do you see the low hill beyond it with the thorn bush on it? It is the stoniest part of the whole moor. Is that a place where a shepherd would be likely to stay? Your suggestion, sir, is a most ridiculous one."

I meekly answered that I had spoken without knowing all the facts. My giving in pleased him and led him to share more.

"You may be sure, sir, that I have very good reasons before I form an opinion. I have seen the boy again and again with his bundle. Every day, and sometimes twice a day, I have been able — but wait a moment, Dr. Watson. Do my eyes deceive me, or is there at the present moment something moving on that hillside?"

It was several miles off, but I could clearly see a small dark dot against the dull green and grey.

"Come, sir, come!" cried Frankland, rushing upstairs. "You will see with your own eyes and judge for yourself."

The telescope, a large instrument fixed on a stand, stood on the flat roof of the house. Frankland put his eye to it and gave a cry of satisfaction.

"Quick, Dr. Watson, quick, before he passes over the hill!"

There he was, sure enough, a small boy with a little bundle on his shoulder, climbing slowly up the hill. When he reached the top I saw the rough untidy figure outlined for an instant against the cold blue sky. He looked around him with a careful and secretive air, like someone who is afraid of being followed. Then he disappeared over the hill.

"Well! Am I right?"

"Certainly, there is a boy who seems to have some secret task."

"And what the task is even a country policeman could guess. But not one word shall they have from me, and I make you swear to secrecy also, Dr. Watson. Not a word! You understand!"

"Just as you wish."

"They have treated me shamefully — shamefully. When the facts come out in Frankland v. Regina I believe a feeling of outrage will run through the country. Nothing would make me help the police in any way. For all they cared it might have been me, instead of my figure, which those rascals burned at the stake. Surely you are not going! You will help me to finish the bottle in honour of this great occasion!"

But I refused all his invitations and managed to stop him from his declared intention of walking home with me. I kept to the road as long as his eye was on me, and then I turned off across the moor and headed for the stony hill over which the boy had disappeared. Everything was working in my favour, and I swore that it should not be through lack of energy or persistence that I should miss the chance which luck had put my way.

The sun was already going down when I reached the top of the hill, and the long slopes below me were all golden-green on one side and grey shadow on the other. A haze lay low on the farthest sky line, from which rose the strange shapes of Belliver and Vixen Tor. Over the wide open space there was no sound and no movement. One great grey bird, a gull or wading bird, soared high in the blue sky. He and I seemed to be the only living things between the huge arch of the sky and the empty land below it. The bare scene, the sense of loneliness, and the mystery and urgency of my task all sent a chill through my heart. The boy was nowhere to be seen. But down below me in a dip in the hills there was a circle of the old stone huts, and in the middle of them there was one which still had enough roof to act as a shelter from the weather. My heart jumped within me as I saw it. This must be the hiding place of the stranger. At last my foot was on the doorstep of his secret — his mystery was within my reach.

As I approached the hut, moving as carefully as Stapleton would when with his butterfly net he crept towards a resting butterfly, I satisfied myself that the place had indeed been used as a home. A faint path among the boulders led to the broken opening which served as a door. All was silent inside. The unknown man might be lurking there, or he might be wandering on the moor. My nerves tingled with excitement. Throwing aside my cigarette, I gripped my gun, and, walking quickly up to the door, I looked in. The place was empty.

But there were clear signs that I had not come on a false trail. This was certainly where the man lived. Some blankets rolled in a waterproof lay upon a stone slab on which ancient man had once slept. The ashes of a fire were piled in a rough fireplace. Beside it lay some cooking tools and a bucket half-full of water. A collection of empty tins showed that the place had been lived in for some time, and I saw, as my eyes got used to the broken light, a small pot and a half-full bottle of spirits standing in the corner. In the middle of the hut a flat stone served as a table, and upon this stood a small cloth bundle — the same, no doubt, which I had seen through the telescope on the boy's shoulder. It contained a loaf of bread, a tin of meat, and two tins of preserved peaches. As I put it down again, after examining it, my heart jumped to see that beneath it there lay a sheet of paper with writing on it. I lifted it, and this is what I read, written roughly in pencil:

Dr. Watson has gone to Coombe Tracey.

For a minute I stood there with the paper in my hands, thinking about the meaning of this short message. It was I, then, and not Sir Henry, who was being followed by this secret man. He had not followed me himself, but he had set an agent — the boy, perhaps — on my trail, and this was his report. It was possible that I had taken no step since I had been on the moor which had not been watched and reported. Always there was this feeling of an unseen force, a fine net drawn round us with great skill and care, holding us so lightly that it was only at some important moment that one realized that one was truly caught in its threads.

If there was one report there might be others, so I looked round the hut in search of them. There was no sign, however, of anything of the kind, nor could I discover any clue which might indicate the character or purposes of the man who lived in this strange place, except that he must live very simply and care little for the comforts of life. When I thought of the heavy rains and looked at the open roof I understood how strong and fixed must be the purpose which had kept him in that unwelcoming home. Was he our dangerous enemy, or was he by chance our guardian angel? I swore that I would not leave the hut until I knew.

Outside the sun was going down and the west was blazing with red and gold. Its reflection was thrown back in reddish patches by the distant pools which lay amid the great Grimpen Mire. There were the two towers of Baskerville Hall, and there a distant blur of smoke which marked the village of Grimpen. Between the two, behind the hill, was the house of the Stapletons. All was sweet and peaceful in the golden evening light, and yet as I looked at them my soul shared none of the peace of nature but trembled at the uncertainty and the terror of that meeting which every instant was bringing nearer. With tense nerves but a firm purpose, I sat in the dark corner of the hut and waited with quiet patience for the return of its owner.

And then at last I heard him. Far away came the sharp click of a boot striking upon a stone. Then another and yet another, coming nearer and nearer. I shrank back into the darkest corner, and cocked the gun in my pocket, determined not to show myself until I had a chance of seeing something of the stranger. There was a long pause which showed that he had stopped. Then once more the footsteps approached and a shadow fell across the opening of the hut.

"It is a lovely evening, my dear Watson," said a well-known voice. "I really think that you will be more comfortable outside than in."
