
  One of Sherlock Holmes's faults — if indeed one may call it a fault — was that he was very unwilling to share his full plans with any other person until the moment of their carrying out. Partly it came no doubt from his own commanding nature, which loved to control and surprise those who were around him. Partly also from his professional caution, which urged him never to take any chances. The result, however, was very trying for those who were acting as his helpers and assistants. I had often suffered under it, but never more so than during that long drive in the darkness. The great test was in front of us. At last we were about to make our final effort, and yet Holmes had said nothing, and I could only guess what his plan of action would be. My nerves thrilled with anticipation when at last the cold wind on our faces and the dark, empty spaces on either side of the narrow road told me that we were back on the moor once again. Every step of the horses and every turn of the wheels was taking us nearer to our supreme adventure.

Our conversation was made difficult by the presence of the driver of the hired carriage, so that we were forced to talk of unimportant matters when our nerves were tense with emotion and anticipation. It was a relief to me, after that unnatural restraint, when we at last passed Frankland's house and knew that we were drawing near to the Hall and to the scene of action. We did not drive up to the door but got down near the gate of the driveway. The carriage was paid off and ordered to return to Coombe Tracey at once, while we started to walk to Merripit House.

"Are you armed, Lestrade?"

The little detective smiled.

"As long as I have my trousers I have a hip-pocket, and as long as I have my hip-pocket I have something in it."

"Good! My friend and I are also ready for emergencies."

"You are very secretive about this affair, Mr. Holmes. What is the plan now?"

"A waiting game."

"My word, it does not seem a very cheerful place," said the detective with a shiver, looking round him at the dark slopes of the hill and at the huge bank of fog which lay over the Grimpen Mire. "I see the lights of a house ahead of us."

"That is Merripit House and the end of our journey. I must ask you to walk on tiptoe and not to talk above a whisper."

We moved carefully along the track as if we were going to the house, but Holmes stopped us when we were about two hundred yards from it.

"This will do," said he. "These rocks on the right make an excellent screen."

"We are to wait here?"

"Yes, we shall set up our little ambush here. Get into this hollow, Lestrade. You have been inside the house, have you not, Watson? Can you tell me the position of the rooms? What are those small-paned windows at this end?"

"I think they are the kitchen windows."

"And the one beyond, which shines so brightly?"

"That is certainly the dining room."

"The curtains are up. You know the place best. Creep forward quietly and see what they are doing — but for heaven's sake don't let them know that they are watched!"

I walked quietly down the path and bent down behind the low wall which surrounded the small garden. Creeping in its shadow I reached a point from where I could look straight through the uncurtained window.

There were only two men in the room, Sir Henry and Stapleton. They sat facing me on either side of the round table. Both of them were smoking cigars, and coffee and wine were in front of them. Stapleton was talking with animation, but the baronet looked pale and distracted. Perhaps the thought of that lonely walk across the dangerous moor was weighing heavily upon his mind.

As I watched them Stapleton rose and left the room, while Sir Henry refilled his glass and leaned back in his chair, pulling at his cigar. I heard the creak of a door and the crisp sound of boots on gravel. The footsteps passed along the path on the other side of the wall under which I was crouching. Looking over, I saw the nature collector pause at the door of a small outbuilding in the corner of the garden. A key turned in a lock, and as he passed in there was a strange scraping noise from within. He was only a minute or so inside, and then I heard the key turn once more and he passed by me and went back into the house. I saw him rejoin his guest, and I crept quietly back to where my companions were waiting to tell them what I had seen.

"You say, Watson, that the lady is not there?" Holmes asked, when I had finished my report.

"No."

"Where can she be, then, since there is no light in any other room except the kitchen?"

"I cannot think where she is."

I have said that over the great Grimpen Mire there hung a dense, white fog. It was drifting slowly in our direction, and was building itself up like a wall on that side of us, low, but thick and well defined. The moon shone on it, and it looked like a great shimmering field of ice, with the heads of the distant rocky hills as rocks riding on its surface. Holmes's face was turned towards it, and he muttered impatiently as he watched its slow drift.

"It is moving towards us, Watson."

"Is that serious?"

"Very serious indeed — the one thing on earth which could have spoiled my plans. He cannot be very long now. It is already ten o'clock. Our success and even his life may depend upon his coming out before the fog covers the path."

The night was clear and fine above us. The stars shone cold and bright, while a half moon bathed the whole scene in a soft, uncertain light. Before us lay the dark bulk of the house, its roof outline and chimneys hard against the star-filled sky. Wide bars of golden light from the lower windows stretched across the garden and the moor. One of them was suddenly cut off. The servants had left the kitchen. There only remained the lamp in the dining room where the two men, the murderous host and the unaware guest, still chatted over their cigars.

Every minute that white woolly plain which covered one half of the moor was drifting closer and closer to the house. Already the first thin wisps of it were curling across the golden square of the lighted window. The far wall of the garden was already invisible, and the trees were standing out of a swirl of white cloud. As we watched it the fog swirled around both corners of the house and rolled slowly into one thick bank, on which the upper floor and the roof floated like a strange ship upon a shadowy sea. Holmes struck his hand hard upon the rock in front of us and stamped his feet in his impatience.

"If he isn't out in a quarter of an hour the path will be covered. In half an hour we won't be able to see our hands in front of us."

"Shall we move further back to higher ground?"

"Yes, I think it would be as well."

So as the fog bank flowed onwards we fell back before it until we were half a mile from the house, and still that thick white sea, with the moon silvering its upper edge, swept slowly and unstoppably on.

"We are going too far," said Holmes. "We dare not risk his being caught before he can reach us. At all costs we must hold our ground where we are." He dropped on his knees and pressed his ear to the ground. "Thank God, I think that I hear him coming."

A sound of quick steps broke the silence of the moor. Crouching among the stones we stared hard at the silver-edged fog in front of us. The steps grew louder, and through the fog, as through a curtain, there stepped the man whom we were waiting for. He looked around him in surprise as he came into the clear, star-lit night. Then he came swiftly along the path, passed close to where we lay, and went on up the long slope behind us. As he walked he looked continuously over either shoulder, like a man who is ill at ease.

"Listen!" cried Holmes, and I heard the sharp click of a gun being cocked. "Look out! It is coming!"

There was a thin, sharp, continuous tapping sound from somewhere in the heart of that crawling bank of fog. The cloud was within fifty yards of where we lay, and we stared at it, all three, uncertain what horror was about to break from the heart of it. I was at Holmes's side, and I glanced for an instant at his face. It was pale and excited, his eyes shining brightly in the moonlight. But suddenly they fixed forward in a rigid, fixed stare, and his lips parted in amazement. At the same instant Lestrade gave a yell of terror and threw himself face downward upon the ground. I sprang to my feet, my hand gripping my gun, my mind paralyzed by the dreadful shape which had burst upon us from the shadows of the fog. A hound it was, an enormous coal-black hound, but not such a hound as any human eyes have ever seen. Fire burst from its open mouth, its eyes glowed with a smouldering light, its muzzle and neck fur were outlined in flickering flame. Never in the strangest dream of a confused mind could anything more savage, more frightening, more hellish be imagined than that dark form and savage face which broke upon us out of the wall of fog.

With long jumps the huge black creature was leaping down the track, following hard upon the footsteps of our friend. We were so paralyzed by the sight that we allowed him to pass before we had recovered our nerve. Then Holmes and I both fired together, and the creature gave a terrible howl, which showed that at least one shot had hit him. He did not stop, however, but bounded onward. Far away on the path we saw Sir Henry looking back, his face white in the moonlight, his hands raised in horror, staring helplessly at the frightful thing which was hunting him down.

But that cry of pain from the hound had blown all our fears away. If he was vulnerable he was mortal, and if we could wound him we could kill him. Never have I seen a man run as Holmes ran that night. I am considered fast on my feet, but he outpaced me as much as I outpaced the little professional. In front of us as we flew up the track we heard scream after scream from Sir Henry and the deep roar of the hound. I was in time to see the beast spring upon its victim, knock him to the ground, and attack his throat. But the next instant Holmes had fired five shots of his gun into the creature's side. With a last howl of pain and a violent snap in the air, it rolled upon its back, four feet moving furiously, and then fell limp upon its side. I stood, panting, and pressed my gun to the dreadful glowing head, but it was useless to fire. The giant hound was dead.

Sir Henry lay unconscious where he had fallen. We tore open his collar, and Holmes breathed a prayer of thanks when we saw that there was no sign of a wound and that the rescue had been in time. Already our friend's eyelids fluttered and he made a weak effort to move. Lestrade pushed his brandy bottle between the baronet's lips, and two frightened eyes were looking up at us.

"My God!" he whispered. "What was it? What, in heaven's name, was it?"

"It is dead, whatever it is," said Holmes. "We have laid the family ghost once and for all."

In size and strength it was a terrible creature which lay stretched before us. It was not a pure bloodhound and it was not a pure mastiff; but it appeared to be a combination of the two — thin, savage, and as large as a small lioness. Even now, in the stillness of death, the huge jaws seemed to be dripping with a bluish light and the small, deep-set, cruel eyes were ringed with fire. I placed my hand upon the glowing nose, and as I held up my own fingers they smouldered and gleamed in the darkness.

"Phosphorus," I said.

"A clever preparation of it," said Holmes, sniffing at the dead animal. "There is no smell which might have reduced his power of scent. We owe you a deep apology, Sir Henry, for having exposed you to this fright. I was prepared for a hound, but not for such a creature as this. And the fog gave us little time to receive him."

"You have saved my life."

"Having first put it at risk. Are you strong enough to stand?"

"Give me another mouthful of that brandy and I shall be ready for anything. So! Now, if you will help me up. What do you propose to do?"

"To leave you here. You are not fit for further adventures tonight. If you will wait, one or other of us will go back with you to the Hall."

He tried to stand; but he was still very pale and trembling in every part of his body. We helped him to a rock, where he sat shivering with his face buried in his hands.

"We must leave you now," said Holmes. "The rest of our work must be done, and every moment is important. We have our case, and now we only want our man.

"It is a thousand to one against our finding him at the house," he continued as we retraced our steps quickly down the path. "Those shots must have told him that the game was up."

"We were some distance off, and this fog may have deadened them."

"He followed the hound to call him off — you may be certain of that. No, no, he has gone by this time! But we will search the house and make sure."

The front door was open, so we rushed in and hurried from room to room to the amazement of an old confused servant, who met us in the passage. There was no light except in the dining room, but Holmes caught up the lamp and left no corner of the house unexplored. No sign could we find of the man we were chasing. On the upper floor, however, one of the bedroom doors was locked.

"There is someone in here," cried Lestrade. "I can hear a movement. Open this door!"

A faint moaning and rustling sound came from within. Holmes struck the door just over the lock with the flat of his foot and it flew open. Gun in hand, we all three rushed into the room.

But there was no sign within it of that dangerous and defiant villain whom we expected to see. Instead we were faced by an object so strange and so unexpected that we stood for a moment staring at it in amazement.

The room had been made into a small museum, and the walls were lined by a number of glass-topped cases full of that collection of butterflies and moths which had been the hobby of this complex and dangerous man. In the centre of this room there was an upright post, which had been placed at some point as a support for the old worn timber which crossed the roof. To this post a figure was tied, so wrapped and covered in the sheets which had been used to secure it that one could not for the moment tell whether it was that of a man or a woman. One cloth passed round the throat and was fastened at the back of the post. Another covered the lower part of the face, and over it two dark eyes — eyes full of grief and shame and a terrible questioning — stared back at us. In a minute we had torn off the gag, unwrapped the bonds, and Mrs. Stapleton sank upon the floor in front of us. As her beautiful head fell upon her chest I saw the clear red mark of a whip across her neck.

"The brute!" cried Holmes. "Here, Lestrade, your brandy bottle! Put her in the chair! She has fainted from ill-treatment and exhaustion."

She opened her eyes again.

"Is he safe?" she asked. "Has he escaped?"

"He cannot escape us, madam."

"No, no, I did not mean my husband. Sir Henry? Is he safe?"

"Yes."

"And the hound?"

"It is dead."

She gave a long sigh of satisfaction.

"Thank God! Thank God! Oh, this villain! See how he has treated me!" She stretched her arms out from her sleeves, and we saw with horror that they were all marked with bruises. "But this is nothing — nothing! It is my mind and soul that he has hurt and damaged. I could bear it all, ill-treatment, loneliness, a life of lies, everything, as long as I could still hold on to the hope that I had his love, but now I know that in this also I have been his victim and his tool." She broke into passionate sobbing as she spoke.

"You bear him no good will, madam," said Holmes. "Tell us then where we shall find him. If you have ever helped him in evil, help us now and make up for it."

"There is but one place where he can have fled," she answered. "There is an old tin mine on an island in the heart of the swamp. It was there that he kept his hound and there also he had made preparations so that he might have a hiding place. That is where he would run."

The fog bank lay like white wool against the window. Holmes held the lamp towards it.

"See," said he. "No one could find his way into the Grimpen Mire tonight."

She laughed and clapped her hands. Her eyes and teeth gleamed with fierce delight.

"He may find his way in, but never out," she cried. "How can he see the guiding markers tonight? We planted them together, he and I, to mark the pathway through the swamp. Oh, if I could only have pulled them out today. Then indeed you would have had him at your mercy!"

It was clear to us that all chase was impossible until the fog had lifted. Meanwhile we left Lestrade in possession of the house while Holmes and I went back with the baronet to Baskerville Hall. The story of the Stapletons could no longer be kept from him, but he took the blow bravely when he learned the truth about the woman whom he had loved. But the shock of the night's experiences had broken his nerves, and before morning he lay confused in a high fever, under the care of Dr. Mortimer. The two of them were going to travel together around the world before Sir Henry had become once more the healthy, strong man that he had been before he became master of that unfortunate estate.

And now I come quickly to the conclusion of this strange story, in which I have tried to make the reader share those dark fears and vague suspicions which clouded our lives for so long and ended in so tragic a manner. On the morning after the death of the hound the fog had lifted and we were guided by Mrs. Stapleton to the point where they had found a pathway through the bog. It helped us to understand the horror of this woman's life when we saw the eagerness and joy with which she led us on her husband's trail. We left her standing on the thin strip of firm, dark soil which narrowed out into the widespread bog. From the end of it a small stick planted here and there showed where the path twisted from clump to clump of rushes among those green-covered pits and foul muddy holes which blocked the way to the stranger. Thick reeds and slimy water plants sent a smell of decay and a heavy poisonous vapour into our faces, while a wrong step plunged us more than once thigh-deep into the dark, shaking mud, which shook for yards in soft waves around our feet. Its gripping pull tugged at our heels as we walked, and when we sank into it it was as if some evil hand was pulling us down into those dark depths, so grim and purposeful was the grip which held us. Once only we saw a sign that someone had passed that dangerous way before us. From amid a clump of white grass which held it up out of the mud some dark thing was sticking out. Holmes sank to his waist as he stepped from the path to seize it, and had we not been there to drag him out he could never have set his foot on firm ground again. He held an old black boot in the air. "Meyers, Toronto," was printed on the leather inside.

"It is worth a mud bath," said he. "It is our friend Sir Henry's missing boot."

"Thrown there by Stapleton in his flight."

"Exactly. He held it in his hand after using it to set the hound upon the trail. He fled when he knew the game was up, still holding it. And he threw it away at this point of his flight. We know at least that he came so far safely."

But more than that we were never to know, though there was much which we might guess. There was no chance of finding footprints in the mud, for the rising mud oozed quickly back over them, but as we at last reached firmer ground beyond the swamp we all looked eagerly for them. But not the slightest sign of them ever met our eyes. If the earth told a true story, then Stapleton never reached that island refuge towards which he struggled through the fog on that last night. Somewhere in the heart of the great Grimpen Mire, down in the foul mud of the huge swamp which swallowed him up, this cold and cruel-hearted man is buried forever.

Many traces we found of him on the boggy island where he had hidden his savage helper. A huge wheel and a shaft half-filled with rubble showed the position of an abandoned mine. Beside it were the crumbling remains of the miners' cottages, driven away no doubt by the foul smell of the surrounding swamp. In one of these a ring and chain with a quantity of chewed bones showed where the animal had been kept. A skeleton with a tangle of brown hair attached to it lay among the ruins.

"A dog!" said Holmes. "By Jove, a curly-haired spaniel. Poor Mortimer will never see his pet again. Well, I do not know that this place contains any secret which we have not already worked out. He could hide his hound, but he could not silence its voice, and hence came those cries which even in daylight were not pleasant to hear. In an emergency he could keep the hound in the outbuilding at Merripit, but it was always a risk, and it was only on the supreme day, which he regarded as the end of all his efforts, that he dared do it. This paste in the tin is no doubt the glowing mixture with which the creature was covered. It was suggested, of course, by the story of the family hell-hound, and by the wish to frighten old Sir Charles to death. No wonder the poor convict ran and screamed, even as our friend did, and as we ourselves might have done, when he saw such a creature bounding through the darkness of the moor upon his trail. It was a clever device, for, apart from the chance of driving your victim to his death, what local person would dare to look too closely into such a creature should he catch sight of it, as many have done, upon the moor? I said it in London, Watson, and I say it again now, that never yet have we helped to hunt down a more dangerous man than he who is lying yonder" — he swept his long arm towards the huge spotted expanse of green-patched bog which stretched away until it joined the brown slopes of the moor.
