
  "We are face to face at last," said Holmes as we walked together across the moor. "What a nerve the fellow has! How he pulled himself together in the face of what must have been a paralyzing shock when he found that the wrong man had been the victim of his plan. I told you in London, Watson, and I tell you now again, that we have never faced a more worthy opponent."

"I am sorry that he has seen you."

"And so was I at first. But there was no way out of it."

"What effect do you think it will have on his plans now that he knows you are here?"

"It may cause him to be more careful, or it may push him to desperate actions at once. Like most clever criminals, he may be too confident in his own cleverness and believe that he has completely misled us."

"Why should we not arrest him at once?"

"My dear Watson, you were born to be a man of action. Your instinct is always to do something energetic. But suppose, just for the sake of argument, that we had him arrested tonight — what on earth would be better for us? We could prove nothing against him. That is the devilish cleverness of it! If he were acting through a human helper we could get some evidence, but if we were to bring this great dog out into the light of day it would not help us in putting a rope around the neck of its master."

"Surely we have a case."

"Not a shadow of one — only guesses and theories. We would be laughed out of court if we came with such a story and such evidence."

"There is Sir Charles's death."

"Found dead without a mark upon him. You and I know that he died of pure terror, and we know also what frightened him; but how are we to make twelve solid jurors know it? What signs are there of a hound? Where are the marks of its teeth? Of course we know that a hound does not bite a dead body and that Sir Charles was dead before ever the beast reached him. But we have to prove all this, and we are not in a position to do it."

"Well, then, tonight?"

"We are not much better off tonight. Again, there was no direct link between the hound and the man's death. We never saw the hound. We heard it; but we could not prove that it was running on this man's trail. There is a complete absence of reason or motive. No, my dear fellow; we must accept the fact that we have no case at present, and that it is worth any risk in order to build one."

"And how do you propose to do so?"

"I have great hopes of what Mrs. Laura Lyons may do for us when the true situation is made clear to her. And I have my own plan as well. Sufficient for tomorrow to deal with its own problems; but I hope before the day is over to have the upper hand at last."

I could get nothing more from him, and he walked, lost in thought, as far as the Baskerville gates.

"Are you coming up?"

"Yes; I see no reason for further hiding. But one last word, Watson. Say nothing of the hound to Sir Henry. Let him think that Selden's death was as Stapleton would have us believe. He will have better nerves for the test which he will have to face tomorrow, when he is engaged, if I remember your report correctly, to dine with these people."

"And so am I."

"Then you must make an excuse and he must go alone. That will be easily arranged. And now, if we are too late for dinner, I think that we are both ready for our suppers."

Sir Henry was more pleased than surprised to see Sherlock Holmes, for he had for some days been expecting that recent events would bring him down from London. He did raise his eyebrows, however, when he found that my friend had neither any luggage nor any explanation for its absence. Between us we soon supplied his needs, and then over a late supper we explained to the baronet as much of our experience as it seemed wise for him to know. But first I had the unpleasant duty of breaking the news to Barrymore and his wife. To him it may have been a pure relief, but she wept bitterly into her apron. To all the world Selden was the man of violence, half animal and half demon; but to her he always remained the little stubborn boy of her own childhood, the child who had held her hand. Evil indeed is the man who has not one woman to mourn him.

"I have been shut up in the house all day since Watson went off in the morning," said the baronet. "I suppose I should get some credit, for I have kept my promise. If I hadn't sworn not to go about alone I might have had a more eventful evening, for I had a message from Stapleton asking me over there."

"I have no doubt that you would have had a more eventful evening," said Holmes drily. "By the way, I don't suppose you realize that we have been mourning over you as having broken your neck?"

Sir Henry opened his eyes wide. "How was that?"

"This poor man was dressed in your clothes. I fear your servant who gave them to him may get into trouble with the police."

"That is unlikely. There was no mark on any of them, as far as I know."

"That is lucky for him — in fact, it is lucky for all of you, since you are all on the wrong side of the law in this matter. I am not sure that as a dutiful detective my first duty is not to arrest the whole household. Watson's reports are most damaging documents."

"But how about the case?" asked the baronet. "Have you made any sense of the puzzle? I don't know that Watson and I are much the wiser since we came down."

"I think that I shall be in a position to make the situation rather more clear to you before long. It has been an extremely difficult and very complicated business. There are several points on which we still need light — but it is coming all the same."

"We've had one experience, as Watson has no doubt told you. We heard the hound on the moor, so I can swear that it is not all empty superstition. I had something to do with dogs when I was out West, and I know one when I hear one. If you can muzzle that one and put him on a chain I will be ready to swear you are the greatest detective of all time."

"I think I will muzzle him and chain him all right if you will give me your help."

"Whatever you tell me to do I will do."

"Very good; and I will ask you also to do it without always asking the reason."

"Just as you like."

"If you will do this I think the chances are that our little problem will soon be solved. I have no doubt ——"

He stopped suddenly and stared fixedly up over my head into the air. The lamp shone upon his face, and so concentrated and so still was it that it might have been that of a clear classical statue, a symbol of alertness and expectation.

"What is it?" we both cried.

I could see as he looked down that he was holding back some inner emotion. His features were still calm, but his eyes shone with amused excitement.

"Excuse the admiration of someone who knows what he is looking at," said he as he waved his hand towards the line of portraits which covered the opposite wall. "Watson won't allow that I know anything of art, but that is mere jealousy, because our views on the subject differ. Now, these are a really very fine series of portraits."

"Well, I am glad to hear you say so," said Sir Henry, glancing with some surprise at my friend. "I don't claim to know much about these things, and I would be a better judge of a horse or a cow than of a picture. I did not know that you found time for such things."

"I know what is good when I see it, and I see it now. That is a Kneller, I will swear, that lady in the blue silk over there, and the fat gentleman with the wig ought to be a Reynolds. They are all family portraits, I presume?"

"Every one."

"Do you know the names?"

"Barrymore has been teaching me about them, and I think I can say my lessons fairly well."

"Who is the gentleman with the telescope?"

"That is Rear-Admiral Baskerville, who served under Rodney in the West Indies. The man with the blue coat and the roll of paper is Sir William Baskerville, who was Chairman of Committees of the House of Commons under Pitt."

"And this Cavalier opposite to me — the one with the black velvet and the lace?"

"Ah, you have a right to know about him. That is the cause of all the trouble, the wicked Hugo, who started the Hound of the Baskervilles. We are not likely to forget him."

I gazed with interest and some surprise upon the portrait.

"Dear me!" said Holmes. "He seems a quiet, meek-mannered man enough, but I dare say that there was a dangerous spirit in his eyes. I had pictured him as a more rough and violent person."

"There is no doubt about it, for the name and the date, 1647, are on the back of the canvas."

Holmes said little more, but the portrait of the old wild man seemed to fascinate him, and his eyes were continually fixed upon it during supper. It was not until later, when Sir Henry had gone to his room, that I was able to follow the direction of his thoughts. He led me back into the banqueting hall, his bedroom candle in his hand, and he held it up against the old portrait on the wall.

"Do you see anything there?"

I looked at the wide plumed hat, the curling long locks, the white lace collar, and the straight, severe face which was framed between them. It was not a brutal face, but it was hard, and stern, with a firm thin-lipped mouth, and a coldly intolerant eye.

"Is it like anyone you know?"

"There is something of Sir Henry about the jaw."

"Just a suggestion, perhaps. But wait an instant!" He stood upon a chair, and, holding up the light in his left hand, he curved his right arm over the broad hat and around the long curls.

"Good heavens!" I cried, in amazement.

The face of Stapleton had appeared from the canvas.

"Ha, you see it now. My eyes have been trained to examine faces and not their decoration. It is the first quality of a criminal investigator that he should see through a disguise."

"But this is remarkable. It might be his portrait."

"Yes, it is an interesting example of a characteristic that comes back through generations, which appears to be both physical and of character. A study of family portraits is enough to convert a man to the idea that the same person can be born again and again. The fellow is a Baskerville — that is clear."

"With designs upon the estate."

"Exactly. This chance discovery of the portrait has given us one of our most important missing links. We have him, Watson, we have him, and I dare swear that before tomorrow night he will be trapped in our net as helpless as one of his own butterflies. A pin, a cork, and a card, and we add him to the Baker Street collection!" He burst into one of his rare fits of laughter as he turned away from the picture. I have not heard him laugh often, and it has always meant bad news for somebody.

I was up early in the morning, but Holmes was up earlier still, for I saw him as I dressed, coming up the drive.

"Yes, we should have a full day today," he remarked, and he rubbed his hands with the joy of action. "The nets are all in place, and the drag is about to begin. We will know before the day is out whether we have caught our big, dangerous fish, or whether he has got through the meshes."

"Have you been on the moor already?"

"I have sent a report from Grimpen to Princetown about the death of Selden. I think I can promise that none of you will be troubled in the matter. And I have also been in touch with my faithful Cartwright, who would certainly have wasted away at the door of my hut, like a dog at his master's grave, if I had not let him know of my safety."

"What is the next move?"

"To see Sir Henry. Ah, here he is!"

"Good morning, Holmes," said the baronet. "You look like a general who is planning a battle with his chief of staff."

"That is the exact situation. Watson was asking for orders."

"And so do I."

"Very good. You are engaged, as I understand, to dine with our friends the Stapletons tonight."

"I hope that you will come also. They are very welcoming people, and I am sure that they would be very glad to see you."

"I fear that Watson and I must go to London."

"To London?"

"Yes, I think that we should be more useful there at this time."

The baronet's face clearly fell.

"I hoped that you were going to see me through this business. The Hall and the moor are not very pleasant places when one is alone."

"My dear fellow, you must trust me completely and do exactly what I tell you. You can tell your friends that we should have been happy to have come with you, but that urgent business required us to be in town. We hope very soon to return to Devonshire. Will you remember to give them that message?"

"If you insist upon it."

"There is no alternative, I assure you."

I saw by the baronet's clouded brow that he was deeply hurt by what he felt was our abandonment of him.

"When do you wish to go?" he asked coldly.

"Immediately after breakfast. We will drive to Coombe Tracey, but Watson will leave his things as a sign that he will come back to you. Watson, you will send a note to Stapleton to tell him that you regret that you cannot come."

"I have a good mind to go to London with you," said the baronet. "Why should I stay here alone?"

"Because it is your duty. Because you gave me your word that you would do as you were told, and I tell you to stay."

"All right, then, I will stay."

"One more instruction! I wish you to drive to Merripit House. Send back your carriage, however, and let them know that you intend to walk home."

"To walk across the moor?"

"Yes."

"But that is the very thing which you have so often warned me not to do."

"This time you may do it safely. If I had not complete confidence in your courage I would not suggest it, but it is essential that you should do it."

"Then I will do it."

"And as you value your life do not go across the moor in any direction except along the straight path which leads from Merripit House to the Grimpen Road, and is your natural way home."

"I will do exactly what you say."

"Very good. I should be glad to get away as soon after breakfast as possible, so as to reach London in the afternoon."

I was very surprised by this plan, though I remembered that Holmes had said to Stapleton the night before that his visit would end the next day. It had not occurred to me, however, that he would wish me to go with him, nor could I understand how we could both be absent at a moment which he himself said was critical. There was nothing for it, however, but to follow his instructions; so we said goodbye to our sad friend, and a couple of hours later we were at the station of Coombe Tracey and had sent the carriage back on its return journey. A small boy was waiting on the platform.

"Any orders, sir?"

"You will take this train to town, Cartwright. The moment you arrive you will send a wire to Sir Henry Baskerville, in my name, to say that if he finds the pocket-book which I have dropped he is to send it by registered post to Baker Street."

"Yes, sir."

"And ask at the station office if there is a message for me."

The boy returned with a telegram, which Holmes handed to me. It read: "Wire received. Coming down with unsigned warrant. Arrive five-forty. — LESTRADE."

"That is in answer to mine of this morning. He is the best of the professional police, I think, and we may need his help. Now, Watson, I think that we cannot use our time better than by calling on your acquaintance, Mrs. Laura Lyons."

His plan was beginning to become clear to me. He would use the baronet to convince the Stapletons that we were really gone, while we should actually return at the instant when we were likely to be needed. That telegram from London, if mentioned by Sir Henry to the Stapletons, must remove the last suspicions from their minds. Already I seemed to see our net drawing closer around our dangerous enemy.

Mrs. Laura Lyons was in her office, and Sherlock Holmes opened his interview with a frankness and directness which considerably surprised her.

"I am investigating the circumstances surrounding the death of the late Sir Charles Baskerville," said he. "My friend here, Dr. Watson, has informed me of what you have told him, and also of what you have kept back in connection with that matter."

"What have I kept back?" she asked challengingly.

"You have admitted that you asked Sir Charles to be at the gate at ten o'clock. We know that that was the place and hour of his death. You have kept back what the connection is between these events."

"There is no connection."

"In that case the coincidence must indeed be a remarkable one. But I think that we shall succeed in establishing a connection after all. I wish to be perfectly open with you, Mrs. Lyons. We regard this case as one of murder, and the evidence may implicate not only your friend Mr. Stapleton, but his wife as well."

The lady sprang from her chair.

"His wife!" she cried.

"The fact is no longer a secret. The person who has passed here as his sister is really his wife."

Mrs. Lyons had sat down again. Her hands were gripping the arms of her chair, and I saw that her fingernails had turned white with the pressure of her grip.

"His wife!" she said again. "His wife! He is not a married man."

Sherlock Holmes shrugged his shoulders.

"Prove it to me! Prove it to me! And if you can do so —!" The fierce flash of her eyes said more than any words.

"I have come prepared to do so," said Holmes, drawing several papers from his pocket. "Here is a photograph of the couple taken in York four years ago. It is marked 'Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur,' but you will have no difficulty in recognizing him, and her also, if you know her by sight. Here are three written descriptions by reliable witnesses of Mr. and Mrs. Vandeleur, who at that time ran St. Oliver's private school. Read them and see if you can doubt the identity of these people."

She looked at them, and then looked up at us with the set, rigid face of a desperate woman.

"Mr. Holmes," she said, "this man offered me marriage on condition that I could get a divorce from my husband. He has lied to me, the villain, in every possible way. Not one word of truth has he ever told me. And why — why? I believed that everything was for my own sake. But now I see that I was never anything but a tool in his hands. Why should I stay loyal to him who never kept any loyalty with me? Why should I try to protect him from the results of his own wicked acts? Ask me what you like, and there is nothing which I shall hold back. One thing I swear to you, and that is that when I wrote the letter I never dreamed of any harm to the old gentleman, who had been my kindest friend."

"I entirely believe you, madam," said Sherlock Holmes. "Telling these events must be very painful for you, and perhaps it will make it easier if I tell you what occurred, and you can correct me if I make any significant mistake. The sending of this letter was suggested to you by Stapleton?"

"He told me what to write."

"I presume that the reason he gave was that you would receive help from Sir Charles for the legal costs connected with your divorce?"

"Exactly."

"And then after you had sent the letter he talked you out of keeping the appointment?"

"He told me that it would hurt his pride that any other man should find the money for such a purpose, and that though he was a poor man himself he would use his last penny to remove the obstacles which kept us apart."

"He appears to be a very consistent character. And then you heard nothing until you read the reports of the death in the newspaper?"

"No."

"And he made you swear to say nothing about your appointment with Sir Charles?"

"He did. He said that the death was a very mysterious one, and that I would certainly be suspected if the facts came out. He frightened me into remaining silent."

"Quite so. But you had your suspicions?"

She hesitated and looked down.

"I knew him," she said. "But if he had kept faith with me I should always have done so with him."

"I think that on the whole you have had a fortunate escape," said Sherlock Holmes. "You have had him in your power and he knew it, and yet you are alive. You have been walking for some months very near to the edge of a cliff. We must wish you good morning now, Mrs. Lyons, and it is probable that you will hear from us again very shortly."

"Our case becomes rounded off, and difficulty after difficulty disappears in front of us," said Holmes as we stood waiting for the arrival of the train from town. "I shall soon be in the position of being able to put into a single connected story one of the most strange and sensational crimes of modern times. Students of crime will remember the similar events in Godno, in Little Russia, in the year '66, and of course there are the Anderson murders in North Carolina, but this case has some features which are entirely its own. Even now we have no clear case against this very clever man. But I shall be very much surprised if it is not clear enough before we go to bed this night."

The London train came roaring into the station, and a small, strong, solid man had sprung from a first-class carriage. We all three shook hands, and I saw at once from the respectful way in which Lestrade looked at my companion that he had learned a great deal since the days when they had first worked together. I could well remember the contempt with which the theories of the logical thinker used to be met by the practical man.

"Anything good?" he asked.

"The biggest thing for years," said Holmes. "We have two hours before we need think of starting. I think we might use it in getting some dinner and then, Lestrade, we will take the London fog out of your throat by giving you a breath of the pure night air of Dartmoor. Never been there? Ah, well, I don't suppose you will forget your first visit."
