

  "I have a document in my pocket," said Dr. James Mortimer.

"I noticed it as you entered the room," said Holmes.

"It is an old document."

"From the early 1700s, unless it is a fake."

"How can you say that, sir?"

"You have been showing me an inch or two of it the whole time you have been talking. It would be a poor expert who could not date a document within ten years or so. You may have read my small paper on the subject. I would put that at 1730."

"The exact date is 1742." Dr. Mortimer took it from his inside pocket. "This family document was given to me for safe keeping by Sir Charles Baskerville, whose sudden and tragic death about three months ago caused great excitement in Devonshire. I should say that I was his personal friend as well as his doctor. He was a strong-minded man, sir, sharp, practical, and no more imaginative than I am myself. Yet he took this document very seriously, and his mind was prepared for exactly the kind of end that did eventually come to him."

Holmes held out his hand for the document and spread it flat on his knee.

"You will notice, Watson, that the writer uses both the long and the short form of the letter 's.' It is one of several signs that helped me to date it."

I looked over his shoulder at the yellow paper and the faded handwriting. At the top was written: "Baskerville Hall," and below in large, scrawling writing: "1742."

"It appears to be some kind of statement."

"Yes, it is a statement about a certain legend in the Baskerville family."

"But I understand that it is something more modern and practical that you wish to consult me about?"

"Very modern. A very practical, urgent matter, which must be decided within twenty-four hours. But the document is short and is closely connected to the matter. With your permission I will read it to you."

Holmes leaned back in his chair, put his fingertips together, and closed his eyes with an expression of patience. Dr. Mortimer held the document up to the light and read in a high, sharp voice the following curious, old-fashioned story:

"Of the origin of the Hound of the Baskervilles there have been many stories, yet as I come in a direct line from Hugo Baskerville, and as I had the story from my father, who also had it from his, I have written it down with full belief that it happened exactly as it is set down here. And I would have you believe, my sons, that the same Justice which punishes sin may also very kindly forgive it, and that no curse is so heavy that prayer and repentance cannot remove it. Learn then from this story not to fear the troubles of the past, but rather to be careful in the future, so that those terrible passions by which our family has suffered so greatly may not again be set loose to destroy us.

"Know then that in the time of the Great Rebellion (the history of which by the learned Lord Clarendon I most sincerely recommend to you) this estate of Baskerville was held by Hugo of that name, and it cannot be denied that he was a wild, godless, and immoral man. This, in truth, his neighbours might have forgiven, since saints have never been common in those parts, but there was in him a certain cruel and wicked humour which made his name known throughout the West as someone to fear. It happened that this Hugo came to love (if such a dark passion can be called by so bright a name) the daughter of a farmer who owned land near the Baskerville estate. But the young girl, being careful and of good character, always avoided him, because she feared his evil reputation. So it happened that one Michaelmas this Hugo, with five or six of his idle and wicked friends, came quietly to the farm and took the girl away, her father and brothers being away from home, as he well knew. When they brought her to the Hall the girl was put in an upper room, while Hugo and his friends sat down to a long drinking session, as was their nightly custom. Now, the poor girl upstairs was nearly driven mad by the singing and shouting and terrible words coming up to her from below, for they say that the language Hugo Baskerville used when he was drunk was enough to destroy the soul of the man who said them. At last, in the terror of her fear, she did something that would have frightened even the bravest man, for by climbing down the ivy which covered (and still covers) the south wall, she came down from under the roof, and went homeward across the moor, there being three miles between the Hall and her father's farm.

"It happened that a little later Hugo left his guests to carry food and drink — and perhaps worse things — to his prisoner, and found the cage empty and the bird gone. Then, as it would seem, he went mad with rage, for, rushing down the stairs into the dining hall, he jumped onto the great table, making plates and cups fly everywhere, and he cried out before all the company that he would that very night give his body and soul to the Powers of Evil if he could only catch the girl. And while the party guests stood in shock at the fury of the man, one, more wicked or perhaps more drunk than the rest, cried out that they should put the hounds after her. At that, Hugo ran from the house, telling his servants to saddle his horse and release the hunting dogs, and giving the dogs a piece of the girl's clothing to smell, he set them loose and rode off at full speed in the moonlight across the moor.

"Now, for some time the party guests stood open-mouthed, unable to understand all that had happened so quickly. But then their confused minds began to understand the nature of what was about to happen on the moors. Everything was in an uproar, some calling for their guns, some for their horses, and some for another bottle of wine. But at last some sense returned to their confused minds, and all of them, thirteen in number, got on their horses and started after the others. The moon shone clearly above them, and they rode quickly side by side, taking the road that the girl must have taken if she were going home.

"They had gone a mile or two when they came across one of the night shepherds on the moorlands, and they shouted to him to ask if he had seen the hunt. And the man, as the story goes, was so terrified that he could hardly speak, but at last he said that he had indeed seen the unhappy girl, with the hounds behind her. 'But I have seen more than that,' said he, 'for Hugo Baskerville passed me on his black horse, and running silently behind him was such a hound of hell as God forbid should ever follow me.' So the drunken riders cursed the shepherd and rode on. But soon their blood ran cold, for there came a galloping sound across the moor, and the black horse, covered with white foam, went past with its reins trailing and the saddle empty. Then the riders came close together, because great fear had come over them, but they still followed over the moor, though each one, if alone, would have been very glad to have turned his horse around. Riding slowly together in this way they came at last to the hounds. These, though known for their courage and their breed, were crying together in a group at the edge of a deep valley or goyal as we call it on the moor, some creeping away and some, with raised fur and staring eyes, looking down the narrow valley in front of them.

"The group had stopped, rather more sober now, as you may imagine, than when they started. Most of them would not go forward, but three of them, the boldest, or perhaps the most drunk, rode down into the valley. It opened into a wide space where stood two of those great stones, still to be seen there, which were put up by certain forgotten peoples in ancient times. The moon was shining brightly on the clearing, and there in the centre lay the unhappy girl where she had fallen, dead from fear and exhaustion. But it was not the sight of her body, nor was it the body of Hugo Baskerville lying near her, that made the hair rise on the heads of these three bold riders, but it was that standing over Hugo, and tearing at his throat, there stood a horrible thing, a great black creature shaped like a hound, yet larger than any hound that any man had ever seen. And even as they watched, the thing tore the throat out of Hugo Baskerville, after which it turned its blazing eyes and dripping mouth on them, and the three screamed with fear and rode for their lives, still screaming, across the moor. One, it is said, died that very night of what he had seen, and the other two were broken men for the rest of their days.

"Such is the tale, my sons, of how the hound came, which is said to have troubled the family ever since. If I have written it down it is because that which is clearly known has less power to frighten than that which is only hinted at and guessed. Nor can it be denied that many of the family have been unhappy in their deaths, which have been sudden, violent, and mysterious. Yet we may take shelter in the infinite goodness of God, which would not forever punish the innocent beyond the third or fourth generation which is mentioned in Holy Scripture. To that God, my sons, I now give you, and I advise you by way of caution to avoid crossing the moor in those dark hours when the powers of evil are at their strongest.

"[This from Hugo Baskerville to his sons Rodger and John, with instructions that they say nothing of this to their sister Elizabeth.]"

When Dr. Mortimer had finished reading this unusual story he pushed his glasses up onto his forehead and looked across at Mr. Sherlock Holmes. Holmes yawned and threw the end of his cigarette into the fire.

"Well?" he said.

"Do you not find it interesting?"

"To someone who collects fairy tales."

Dr. Mortimer took a folded newspaper from his pocket.

"Now, Mr. Holmes, let me give you something a little more recent. This is the Devon County Chronicle of May 14th of this year. It is a short account of the facts that came out at the death of Sir Charles Baskerville, which happened a few days before that date."

My friend leaned a little forward and his expression became focused. Our visitor adjusted his glasses and began:

"The recent sudden death of Sir Charles Baskerville, whose name had been mentioned as the probable Liberal candidate for Mid-Devon at the next election, has cast sadness over the county. Though Sir Charles had lived at Baskerville Hall for only a short time, his friendly character and great generosity had won the love and respect of all who had met him. In these days of newly rich people it is refreshing to find a case where the son of an old county family which had fallen on hard times is able to make his own fortune and bring it back to restore the former greatness of his family line. Sir Charles, as is well known, made large sums of money in South African investments. Wiser than those who keep going until luck turns against them, he took his profits and returned to England with them. It is only two years since he took up his home at Baskerville Hall, and it is common knowledge how large were those plans of improvement and rebuilding which have been stopped by his death. Being himself without children, it was his openly expressed wish that the whole surrounding countryside should, within his own lifetime, benefit from his good fortune, and many will have personal reasons to mourn his early death. His generous donations to local charities have been frequently mentioned in these pages.

"The circumstances connected with the death of Sir Charles cannot be said to have been completely explained by the inquest, but at least enough has been established to dismiss those rumours to which local superstition has given rise. There is no reason at all to suspect foul play, or to imagine that death came from anything other than natural causes. Sir Charles was a widower, and a man who might be said to have been in some ways unusual in his habits of mind. In spite of his considerable wealth he was simple in his personal tastes, and his indoor servants at Baskerville Hall were a married couple named Barrymore, the husband serving as butler and the wife as housekeeper. Their evidence, supported by that of several friends, tends to show that Sir Charles's health had for some time been not good, and points especially to some problem with his heart, showing itself in changes of colour in his face, shortness of breath, and severe attacks of depression. Dr. James Mortimer, the friend and doctor of the deceased, has given evidence to the same effect.

"The facts of the case are simple. Sir Charles Baskerville was in the habit every night before going to bed of walking down the famous Yew Alley of Baskerville Hall. The evidence of the Barrymores shows that this had been his custom. On the 4th of May Sir Charles had said that he intended to go to London the next day, and had told Barrymore to prepare his luggage. That night he went out as usual for his evening walk, during which he was in the habit of smoking a cigar. He never returned. At twelve o'clock Barrymore, finding the hall door still open, became worried, and, lighting a lantern, went to search for his master. The day had been wet, and Sir Charles's footprints were easily followed down the Alley. Half-way down this walk there is a gate which leads out onto the moor. There were signs that Sir Charles had stood for some time at this gate. He then walked on down the Alley, and it was at the far end of it that his body was discovered. One fact which has not been explained is the statement of Barrymore that his master's footprints changed their character from the point where he passed the moor-gate, and that he appeared from that point onward to have been walking on his toes. One Murphy, a gypsy horse-dealer, was on the moor not far away at the time, but he appears by his own admission to have been drunk. He says that he heard cries, but cannot say from which direction they came. No signs of violence were found on Sir Charles's body, and though the doctor's evidence pointed to an almost incredible distortion of the face — so great that Dr. Mortimer at first refused to believe that it was indeed his friend who lay before him — it was explained that this is a symptom which is not unusual in cases of difficulty breathing and death from heart failure. This explanation was supported by the post-mortem examination, which showed long-standing heart disease, and the jury at the inquest returned a verdict in line with the medical evidence. It is good that this is so, for it is obviously very important that Sir Charles's heir should come to live at the Hall and continue the good work which has been so sadly stopped. Had the ordinary finding of the inquest not finally put an end to the romantic stories which have been whispered about the affair, it might have been difficult to find anyone to live in Baskerville Hall. It is understood that the next family member is Mr. Henry Baskerville, if he is still alive, the son of Sir Charles Baskerville's younger brother. The young man when last heard of was in America, and inquiries are being made to tell him of his good fortune."

Dr. Mortimer folded his paper and put it back in his pocket.

"Those are the public facts, Mr. Holmes, connected with the death of Sir Charles Baskerville."

"I must thank you," said Sherlock Holmes, "for drawing my attention to a case which certainly has some interesting features. I had noticed some newspaper coverage at the time, but I was very busy with that small affair of the Vatican paintings, and in my eagerness to help the Pope I lost touch with several interesting English cases. This article, you say, contains all the public facts?"

"It does."

"Then let me hear the private ones." He leaned back, put his fingertips together, and put on his most still and thoughtful expression.

"In doing so," said Dr. Mortimer, who had begun to show signs of strong emotion, "I am telling things which I have not told anyone. My reason for not sharing this at the inquest is that a man of science does not like to place himself in the public position of seeming to support a popular superstition. I also had the further reason that Baskerville Hall, as the paper says, would certainly remain empty if anything were done to increase its already rather dark reputation. For both these reasons I thought I was right to tell rather less than I knew, since no practical good could come of it, but with you there is no reason why I should not be completely honest.

"The moor is very sparsely populated, and those who live near each other are thrown very much together. For this reason I spent a good deal of time with Sir Charles Baskerville. Apart from Mr. Frankland, of Lafter Hall, and Mr. Stapleton, the naturalist, there are no other educated men within many miles. Sir Charles was a quiet man, but the chance of his illness brought us together, and a shared interest in science kept us that way. He had brought back much scientific knowledge from South Africa, and many pleasant evenings we spent together discussing the anatomy of different peoples.

"In the last few months it became increasingly clear to me that Sir Charles's nerves were under terrible strain. He had taken this legend which I have read to you very seriously — so seriously that, although he would walk in his own grounds, nothing would persuade him to go out onto the moor at night. Incredible as it may seem to you, Mr. Holmes, he was honestly convinced that a terrible fate hung over his family, and certainly the records he was able to give of his ancestors were not encouraging. The idea of some dreadful presence constantly haunted him, and on more than one occasion he asked me whether I had during my medical journeys at night ever seen any strange creature or heard the sound of a hound. He asked me the last question several times, and always in a voice shaking with excitement.

"I well remember driving up to his house one evening about three weeks before the fatal event. He happened to be at his front door. I had got down from my vehicle and was standing in front of him, when I saw his eyes fix themselves over my shoulder and stare past me with an expression of terrible horror. I turned quickly and just had time to catch a glimpse of something which I took to be a large black calf passing at the head of the driveway. He was so excited and frightened that I felt I had to go down to the spot where the animal had been and look around for it. It was gone, however, and the incident seemed to make a very bad impression on his mind. I stayed with him all evening, and it was on that occasion, to explain the emotion he had shown, that he shared with me the narrative which I read to you when I first came. I mention this small event because it has some importance given the tragedy that followed, but at the time I was convinced that the matter was completely minor and that his excitement had no real cause.

"It was on my advice that Sir Charles was about to go to London. His heart was, I knew, in poor condition, and the constant worry in which he lived, however imaginary the cause might be, was clearly having a serious effect on his health. I thought that a few months among the distractions of town would send him back a new man. Mr. Stapleton, a mutual friend who was also very concerned about his health, agreed with me. Then, at the very last moment, this terrible disaster happened.

"On the night of Sir Charles's death, Barrymore the butler, who found the body, sent the groom Perkins on horseback to me, and since I was up late I was able to reach Baskerville Hall within an hour of the event. I checked and confirmed all the facts that were mentioned at the inquest. I followed the footprints down the Yew Alley, I saw the spot by the moor-gate where he seemed to have waited, I noticed the change in the shape of the prints after that point, I noted that there were no other footprints except those of Barrymore on the soft ground, and finally I carefully examined the body, which had not been touched until I arrived. Sir Charles lay face down, his arms out, his fingers dug into the ground, and his face twisted with some strong emotion to such a degree that I could hardly have been sure it was him. There was certainly no physical injury of any kind. But one false statement was made by Barrymore at the inquest. He said that there were no traces around the body on the ground. He did not notice any. But I did — some distance away, but fresh and clear."

"Footprints?"

"Footprints."

"A man's or a woman's?"

Dr. Mortimer looked at us strangely for a moment, and his voice dropped almost to a whisper as he answered:

"Mr. Holmes, they were the footprints of a gigantic hound!"

