

   I confess that at these words a chill passed through me. There was a trembling in the doctor's voice which showed that he was himself deeply affected by what he was telling us. Holmes leaned forward in his excitement and his eyes had the hard, bright glitter that appeared when he was strongly interested.

"You saw this?"

"As clearly as I see you."

"And you said nothing?"

"What was the use?"

"How was it that no one else saw it?"

"The marks were about twenty yards from the body and no one thought about them. I don't think I would have either if I had not known this legend."

"There are many sheep-dogs on the moor?"

"No doubt, but this was no sheep-dog."

"You say it was large?"

"Enormous."

"But it had not come close to the body?"

"No."

"What kind of night was it?"

"Wet and cold."

"But not actually raining?"

"No."

"What is the Alley like?"

"There are two lines of old yew hedge, twelve feet high and impossible to get through. The walk in the middle is about eight feet wide."

"Is there anything between the hedges and the walk?"

"Yes, there is a strip of grass about six feet wide on each side."

"I understand that the yew hedge has an opening for a gate?"

"Yes, the small gate which leads out onto the moor."

"Is there any other opening?"

"None."

"So to reach the Yew Alley one must either come down it from the house or enter by the moor-gate?"

"There is a way out through a summer-house at the far end."

"Had Sir Charles reached it?"

"No; he lay about fifty yards from it."

"Now, tell me, Dr. Mortimer — and this is important — the marks you saw were on the path and not on the grass?"

"No marks could show on the grass."

"Were they on the same side of the path as the moor-gate?"

"Yes; they were on the edge of the path on the same side as the moor-gate."

"You interest me enormously. Another point. Was the small gate closed?"

"Closed and locked."

"How high was it?"

"About four feet high."

"Then anyone could have climbed over it?"

"Yes."

"And what marks did you see by the gate?"

"None in particular."

"Good heavens! Did no one examine it?"

"Yes, I examined it myself."

"And found nothing?"

"It was all very confused. Sir Charles had clearly stood there for five to ten minutes."

"How do you know that?"

"Because the ash had fallen twice from his cigar."

"Excellent! This is a colleague, Watson, after our own heart. But the marks?"

"He had left his own marks all over that small patch of ground. I could see no others."

Sherlock Holmes hit his hand against his knee with an impatient gesture.

"If only I had been there!" he cried. "It is clearly a case of extraordinary interest, and one which offered great opportunities to the expert. That gravel area on which I might have read so much has long since been ruined by rain and the boots of curious locals. Oh, Dr. Mortimer, Dr. Mortimer, to think that you should not have called me in! You have indeed much to answer for."

"I could not call you in, Mr. Holmes, without telling these facts to the world, and I have already given my reasons for not wanting to do that. Besides, besides —"

"Why do you stop?"

"There is a field in which even the sharpest and most experienced of detectives is helpless."

"You mean that the thing is supernatural?"

"I did not say so definitely."

"No, but you clearly think it."

"Since the tragedy, Mr. Holmes, I have heard several things which are hard to explain with normal, natural facts."

"For example?"

"I have heard that before the terrible event several people had seen a creature upon the moor which matches this Baskerville monster, and which could not possibly be any known animal. They all agreed that it was a huge creature, glowing, horrible, and ghostly. I have questioned these men carefully, one a practical farmer, one a blacksmith, and one a moorland farmer, and they all tell the same story of this dreadful creature, exactly matching the hell-hound of the legend. I assure you that there is a reign of terror in the area, and that it takes a very brave person to cross the moor at night."

"And you, a trained man of science, believe it to be supernatural?"

"I do not know what to believe."

Holmes shrugged his shoulders.

"I have so far limited my investigations to this world," he said. "In a modest way I have fought against evil, but to take on the Father of Evil himself would perhaps be too ambitious a task. Yet you must admit that the footprint is real and physical."

"The original hound was physical enough to tear a man's throat out, and yet he was also supernatural."

"I see that you have completely gone over to the side of the supernatural believers. But now, Dr. Mortimer, tell me this. If you hold these views, why have you come to consult me at all? You tell me at the same time that it is useless to investigate Sir Charles's death, and that you want me to do it."

"I did not say that I wanted you to do it."

"Then, how can I help you?"

"By advising me what I should do with Sir Henry Baskerville, who arrives at Waterloo Station" — Dr. Mortimer looked at his watch — "in exactly one hour and fifteen minutes."

"He being the heir?"

"Yes. On the death of Sir Charles we searched for this young man and found that he had been farming in Canada. From everything we have heard he is an excellent fellow in every way. I say this not as a doctor but as a trustee and executor of Sir Charles's will."

"There is no other claim, I assume?"

"None. The only other family member we have been able to find was Rodger Baskerville, the youngest of three brothers of whom poor Sir Charles was the eldest. The second brother, who died young, is the father of this young man Henry. The third, Rodger, was the black sheep of the family. He had the same type of character as the old Baskervilles, and was said to look exactly like the family portrait of old Hugo. He made England too dangerous a place for him, ran to Central America, and died there in 1876 from yellow fever. Henry is the last of the Baskervilles. In one hour and five minutes I will meet him at Waterloo Station. I have had a wire saying he arrived at Southampton this morning. Now, Mr. Holmes, what would you advise me to do with him?"

"Why should he not go to the home of his family?"

"It seems natural, does it not? And yet consider that every Baskerville who goes there meets a terrible fate. I feel sure that if Sir Charles could have spoken with me before his death he would have warned me against bringing this, the last of the old family, and the heir to great wealth, to that deadly place. And yet it cannot be denied that the good of the whole poor, bleak countryside depends on his being there. All the good work that Sir Charles did will fall apart if there is no one to live in the Hall. I am afraid that I may be too influenced by my own obvious interest in the matter, and that is why I bring the case before you and ask for your advice."

Holmes thought for a little while.

"Put simply, the matter is this," he said. "In your opinion there is a supernatural force which makes Dartmoor an unsafe home for a Baskerville — that is your view?"

"At least I might go so far as to say that there is some evidence that this may be so."

"Exactly. But surely, if your supernatural theory is correct, it could harm the young man in London just as easily as in Devonshire. A demon with only local power, like a local government committee, would be too ridiculous a thing to imagine."

"You speak about this more lightly, Mr. Holmes, than you probably would if you were personally dealing with these things. Your advice, then, as I understand it, is that the young man will be as safe in Devonshire as in London. He arrives in fifty minutes. What would you recommend?"

"I recommend, sir, that you take a cab, call off your spaniel who is scratching at my front door, and go to Waterloo to meet Sir Henry Baskerville."

"And then?"

"And then you will say nothing to him at all until I have made up my mind about the matter."

"How long will it take you to make up your mind?"

"Twenty-four hours. At ten o'clock tomorrow, Dr. Mortimer, I would be very grateful if you could come here, and it will help me with my plans for the future if you would bring Sir Henry Baskerville with you."

"I will do so, Mr. Holmes." He wrote the appointment on his shirt cuff and hurried off in his strange, curious, absent-minded way. Holmes stopped him at the top of the stairs.

"Just one more question, Dr. Mortimer. You say that before Sir Charles Baskerville's death several people saw this creature upon the moor?"

"Three people did."

"Did any see it after?"

"I have not heard of any."

"Thank you. Good morning."

Holmes returned to his seat with that quiet look of inner satisfaction which meant he had a pleasant task ahead of him.

"Going out, Watson?"

"Unless I can help you."

"No, my dear friend, it is at the moment of action that I turn to you for help. But this is wonderful, truly unique in some ways. When you pass Bradley's, would you ask him to send up a pound of the strongest rough tobacco? Thank you. It would be good if you could make it convenient not to return before evening. Then I would be very glad to compare thoughts about this very interesting problem that has been placed before us this morning."

I knew that solitude and quiet were very necessary for my friend during those hours of intense mental concentration when he weighed every piece of evidence, built alternative theories, balanced one against the other, and decided which points were essential and which were not important. I therefore spent the day at my club and did not return to Baker Street until evening. It was nearly nine o'clock when I found myself in the sitting room once more.

My first impression as I opened the door was that a fire had broken out, for the room was so full of smoke that the light of the lamp on the table was blurred by it. As I entered, however, my fear was gone, for it was the sharp smell of strong cheap tobacco that grabbed my throat and made me cough. Through the haze I had a vague picture of Holmes in his dressing-gown, curled up in an armchair with his black clay pipe between his lips. Several rolls of paper lay around him.

"Caught a cold, Watson?" he said.

"No, it's this poisonous air."

"I suppose it is rather thick, now that you mention it."

"Thick! It is unbearable."

"Open the window, then! You have been at your club all day, I see."

"My dear Holmes!"

"Am I right?"

"Certainly, but how?"

He laughed at my confused expression.

"There is a delightful freshness about you, Watson, which makes it a pleasure to use any small abilities I have at your expense. A gentleman goes out on a wet and muddy day. He comes back in the evening with nothing dirty, with the shine still on his hat and his boots. He has therefore been sitting in one place all day. He is not a man with many close friends. Where then could he have been? Is it not obvious?"

"Well, it is rather obvious."

"The world is full of obvious things which nobody ever actually notices. Where do you think I have been?"

"Also sitting in one place."

"On the contrary, I have been to Devonshire."

"In your mind?"

"Exactly. My body has stayed in this armchair and has, I am sorry to notice, used up two large pots of coffee and an incredible amount of tobacco. After you left I sent down to Stamford's for the Ordnance map of this part of the moor, and my mind has been hovering over it all day. I flatter myself that I could find my way around."

"A large-scale map, I presume?"

"Very large." He unrolled one section and held it over his knee. "Here you have the specific area we are concerned with. That is Baskerville Hall in the middle."

"With a wood around it?"

"Exactly. I think the Yew Alley, though not named on the map, must run along this line, with the moor, as you can see, on the right of it. This small group of buildings here is the village of Grimpen, where our friend Dr. Mortimer lives. Within a five-mile area there are, as you see, only a very few scattered houses. Here is Lafter Hall, which was mentioned in the story. There is a house shown here which may be the home of the naturalist — Stapleton, if I remember correctly. Here are two moorland farms, High Tor and Foulmire. Then fourteen miles away the great prison of Princetown. Between and around these scattered points stretches the desolate, lifeless moor. This, then, is the stage on which tragedy has been played, and on which we may help to play it again."

"It must be a wild place."

"Yes, the setting is a worthy one. If the devil did want to have a part in human affairs —"

"Then you are yourself leaning towards the supernatural explanation."

"The devil's helpers may be made of flesh and blood, may they not? There are two questions waiting for us at the start. The first is whether any crime has been committed at all; the second is, what is the crime and how was it committed? Of course, if Dr. Mortimer's guess should be correct, and we are dealing with forces outside the normal laws of Nature, there is an end to our investigation. But we are required to exhaust all other explanations before falling back on this one. I think we'll close that window again, if you don't mind. It is a strange thing, but I find that a concentrated atmosphere helps a concentration of thought. I have not gone so far as to get into a box to think, but that is the logical result of my ideas. Have you thought about the case?"

"Yes, I have thought about it quite a lot during the day."

"What do you make of it?"

"It is very confusing."

"It has certainly its own character. There are unusual points about it. That change in the footprints, for example. What do you make of that?"

"Mortimer said that the man had walked on tiptoe down that part of the alley."

"He only repeated what some foolish person had said at the inquest. Why would a man walk on tiptoe down the alley?"

"What then?"

"He was running, Watson — running desperately, running for his life, running until he burst his heart and fell dead on his face."

"Running from what?"

"There lies our problem. There are signs that the man was mad with fear before he even began to run."

"How can you say that?"

"I am assuming that the cause of his fear came to him from across the moor. If that is so, and it seems most likely, only a man who had lost his mind would have run away from the house instead of towards it. If the gypsy's evidence can be trusted, he ran shouting for help in the direction where help was least likely to be. Then again, whom was he waiting for that night, and why was he waiting for him in the Yew Alley rather than in his own house?"

"You think that he was waiting for someone?"

"The man was elderly and not strong. We can understand his taking an evening walk, but the ground was wet and the night was unpleasant. Is it natural that he should stand for five or ten minutes, as Dr. Mortimer, with more practical sense than I would have given him credit for, worked out from the cigar ash?"

"But he went out every evening."

"I think it unlikely that he waited at the moor-gate every evening. On the contrary, the evidence shows that he avoided the moor. That night he waited there. It was the night before he was going to London. The thing is taking shape, Watson. It is becoming clear. Might I ask you to pass me my violin, and we will put off all further thought about this business until we have had the advantage of meeting Dr. Mortimer and Sir Henry Baskerville in the morning."

