
  
  Sherlock Holmes had, to a remarkable degree, the ability to switch off his mind when he wanted to. For two hours the strange business in which we had been involved seemed to be forgotten, and he was entirely absorbed in the pictures of modern Belgian painters. He would talk of nothing but art, of which he had some very unusual ideas, from when we left the gallery until we found ourselves at the Northumberland Hotel.

"Sir Henry Baskerville is upstairs expecting you," said the desk clerk. "He asked me to show you up at once when you came."

"Do you have any objection to my looking at your register?" said Holmes.

"Not in the least."

The book showed that two names had been added after that of Baskerville. One was Theophilus Johnson and family, of Newcastle; the other Mrs. Oldmore and maid, of High Lodge, Alton.

"Surely that must be the same Johnson whom I used to know," said Holmes to the porter. "A lawyer, is he not, grey-haired, and walks with a limp?"

"No, sir; this is Mr. Johnson, the coal-owner, a very active gentleman, not older than yourself."

"Surely you are mistaken about his work?"

"No, sir! He has used this hotel for many years, and he is very well known to us."

"Ah, that settles it. Mrs. Oldmore, too; I seem to remember the name. Excuse my curiosity, but often in visiting one friend one finds another."

"She is a lady with poor health, sir. Her husband was once mayor of Gloucester. She always comes to us when she is in town."

"Thank you; I am afraid I cannot claim to know her. We have established a most important fact by these questions, Watson," he continued in a low voice as we went upstairs together. "We know now that the people who are so interested in our friend have not moved into his own hotel. That means that while they are, as we have seen, very eager to watch him, they are equally eager that he should not see them. Now, this is a very significant point."

"What does it suggest?"

"It suggests — hello, my dear friend, what on earth is the matter?"

As we came around the top of the stairs we had walked right into Sir Henry Baskerville himself. His face was red with anger, and he held an old and dusty boot in one of his hands. He was so furious that he could hardly form words, and when he did speak it was with a much stronger Western accent than any we had heard from him in the morning.

"Seems to me they are treating me like a fool in this hotel," he cried. "They'll find they've started to mess with the wrong man unless they are careful. By thunder, if that fellow can't find my missing boot there will be trouble. I can take a joke with the best, Mr. Holmes, but they've gone a bit too far this time."

"Still looking for your boot?"

"Yes, sir, and I mean to find it."

"But, surely, you said that it was a new brown boot?"

"So it was, sir. And now it's an old black one."

"What! You don't mean to say —?"

"That's just what I do mean to say. I only had three pairs in the world — the new brown, the old black, and the patent leathers, which I am wearing. Last night they took one of my brown ones, and today they have stolen one of the black. Well, have you got it? Speak up, man, and don't stand staring!"

A nervous German waiter had appeared on the scene.

"No, sir; I have asked all over the hotel, but I can hear no word of it."

"Well, either that boot comes back before sundown or I'll see the manager and tell him that I go straight out of this hotel."

"It shall be found, sir — I promise you that if you will have a little patience it will be found."

"See that it is, for it's the last thing of mine that I'll lose in this place. Well, well, Mr. Holmes, you'll excuse my troubling you about such a small thing —"

"I think it's well worth troubling about."

"Why, you look very serious over it."

"How do you explain it?"

"I just don't try to explain it. It seems the most mad, strangest thing that ever happened to me."

"The strangest perhaps —" said Holmes, thoughtfully.

"What do you make of it yourself?"

"Well, I don't claim to understand it yet. This case of yours is very complex, Sir Henry. When taken together with your uncle's death I am not sure that of all the five hundred important cases I have handled there is one which goes so deep. But we hold several threads in our hands, and the chances are that one of them guides us to the truth. We may waste time following the wrong one, but sooner or later we must come to the right one."

We had a pleasant lunch during which little was said about the business that had brought us together. It was in the private sitting room we went to afterwards that Holmes asked Baskerville what his plans were.

"To go to Baskerville Hall."

"And when?"

"At the end of the week."

"On the whole," said Holmes, "I think that your decision is a wise one. I have clear evidence that you are being followed in London, and among the millions of this great city it is difficult to discover who these people are or what their purpose can be. If their intentions are evil they might harm you, and we should be powerless to prevent it. You did not know, Dr. Mortimer, that you were followed this morning from my house?"

Dr. Mortimer jumped with shock.

"Followed! By whom?"

"That, unfortunately, is what I cannot tell you. Do you have among your neighbours or acquaintances on Dartmoor any man with a black, full beard?"

"No — or, let me see — why, yes. Barrymore, Sir Charles's butler, is a man with a full, black beard."

"Ha! Where is Barrymore?"

"He is looking after the Hall."

"We had best find out if he is really there, or if by any chance he might be in London."

"How can you do that?"

"Give me a telegram form. 'Is all ready for Sir Henry?' That will do. Address it to Mr. Barrymore, Baskerville Hall. What is the nearest telegraph office? Grimpen. Very good, we will send a second telegram to the postmaster, Grimpen: 'Telegram to Mr. Barrymore to be delivered into his own hands. If absent, please return wire to Sir Henry Baskerville, Northumberland Hotel.' That should let us know before evening whether Barrymore is at his post in Devonshire or not."

"That's right," said Baskerville. "By the way, Dr. Mortimer, who is this Barrymore, anyway?"

"He is the son of the old caretaker, who is dead. They have looked after the Hall for four generations now. So far as I know, he and his wife are as respectable a couple as any in the county."

"At the same time," said Baskerville, "it's clear enough that so long as there are none of the family at the Hall these people have a very comfortable home and nothing to do."

"That is true."

"Did Barrymore benefit at all by Sir Charles's will?" asked Holmes.

"He and his wife each received five hundred pounds."

"Ha! Did they know that they would receive this?"

"Yes; Sir Charles was very fond of talking about the conditions of his will."

"That is very interesting."

"I hope," said Dr. Mortimer, "that you do not look suspiciously upon everyone who received money from Sir Charles, for I also had a thousand pounds left to me."

"Indeed! And anyone else?"

"There were many small amounts to individuals, and a large number of public charities. The rest all went to Sir Henry."

"And how much was the rest?"

"Seven hundred and forty thousand pounds."

Holmes raised his eyebrows in surprise. "I had no idea that such an enormous sum was involved," said he.

"Sir Charles had the reputation of being rich, but we did not know how very rich he was until we examined his assets. The total value of the estate was close to a million."

"Dear me! It is a prize for which a man might well play a dangerous game. And one more question, Dr. Mortimer. If anything were to happen to our young friend here — you will forgive the unpleasant suggestion — who would inherit the estate?"

"Since Rodger Baskerville, Sir Charles's younger brother, died without marrying, the estate would pass to the Desmonds, who are distant cousins. James Desmond is an elderly clergyman in Westmoreland."

"Thank you. These details are all of great interest. Have you met Mr. James Desmond?"

"Yes; he once came down to visit Sir Charles. He is a man of respectable appearance and holy life. I remember that he refused to accept any money from Sir Charles, even though Sir Charles pressed it on him."

"And this man of simple tastes would be the heir to Sir Charles's thousands."

"He would be the heir to the estate because it is tied to the family line. He would also be the heir to the money unless it was given elsewhere by the present owner, who can, of course, do what he likes with it."

"And have you made your will, Sir Henry?"

"No, Mr. Holmes, I have not. I've had no time, for it was only yesterday that I learned how matters stood. But in any case I feel that the money should go with the title and estate. That was my poor uncle's idea. How is the owner going to restore the greatness of the Baskervilles if he has not enough money to keep up the property? House, land, and money must go together."

"Quite so. Well, Sir Henry, I agree with you about the wisdom of going down to Devonshire without delay. There is only one condition that I must make. You certainly must not go alone."

"Dr. Mortimer returns with me."

"But Dr. Mortimer has his practice to attend to, and his house is miles away from yours. With all the good will in the world he may be unable to help you. No, Sir Henry, you must take with you someone, a trustworthy man, who will always be by your side."

"Is it possible that you could come yourself, Mr. Holmes?"

"If matters came to a crisis I should try to be there in person; but you can understand that, with my busy consulting practice and with the constant requests that reach me from many places, it is impossible for me to be away from London for an indefinite time. At the present moment one of the most respected names in England is being ruined by a blackmailer, and only I can stop a disastrous scandal. You will see how impossible it is for me to go to Dartmoor."

"Whom would you recommend, then?"

Holmes put his hand on my arm.

"If my friend would take it on there is no man who is better worth having at your side when you are in a difficult place. No one can say so more confidently than I."

The suggestion completely surprised me, but before I had time to answer, Baskerville grabbed my hand and shook it warmly.

"Well, now, that is really kind of you, Dr. Watson," said he. "You see how it is with me, and you know just as much about the matter as I do. If you will come down to Baskerville Hall and see me through I'll never forget it."

The promise of adventure had always attracted me, and I was pleased by the words of Holmes and by the eagerness with which the baronet welcomed me as a companion.

"I will come, with pleasure," said I. "I do not know how I could use my time better."

"And you will report very carefully to me," said Holmes. "When a crisis comes, as it will, I will tell you how you shall act. I suppose that by Saturday all might be ready?"

"Would that suit Dr. Watson?"

"Perfectly."

"Then on Saturday, unless you hear otherwise, we shall meet at the 10:30 train from Paddington."

We had risen to leave when Baskerville gave a cry of triumph, and diving into one of the corners of the room he pulled a brown boot from under a cabinet.

"My missing boot!" he cried.

"May all our difficulties vanish as easily!" said Sherlock Holmes.

"But it is a very strange thing," Dr. Mortimer remarked. "I searched this room carefully before lunch."

"And so did I," said Baskerville. "Every inch of it."

"There was certainly no boot in it then."

"In that case the waiter must have placed it there while we were having lunch."

The German waiter was sent for but said he knew nothing of the matter, nor could any inquiry clear it up. Another item had been added to that constant and apparently purposeless series of small mysteries which had followed each other so rapidly. Setting aside the whole grim story of Sir Charles's death, we had a line of strange events all within the space of two days, which included the receipt of the printed letter, the black-bearded spy in the hansom cab, the loss of the new brown boot, the loss of the old black boot, and now the return of the new brown boot. Holmes sat in silence in the cab as we drove back to Baker Street, and I knew from his drawn brows and sharp face that his mind, like my own, was busy trying to build some picture into which all these strange and apparently unconnected events could be fitted. All afternoon and late into the evening he sat lost in tobacco smoke and thought.

Just before dinner two telegrams arrived. The first read: "Have just heard that Barrymore is at the Hall. — BASKERVILLE." The second: "Visited twenty-three hotels as directed, but sorry to report unable to trace cut sheet of Times. — CARTWRIGHT."

"There go two of my threads, Watson. There is nothing more exciting than a case where everything goes against you. We must look around for another lead."

"We still have the cabman who drove the spy."

"Exactly. I have wired to get his name and address from the Official Registry. I should not be surprised if this were an answer to my question."

The ring at the bell proved to be something even more satisfying than an answer, however, for the door opened and a rough-looking fellow entered who was clearly the man himself.

"I got a message from the head office that a gentleman at this address had been asking about 2704," said he. "I've driven my cab this seven years and never a word of complaint. I came here straight from the Yard to ask you to your face what you had against me."

"I have nothing in the world against you, my good man," said Holmes. "On the contrary, I have half a sovereign for you if you will give me a clear answer to my questions."

"Well, I've had a good day and no mistake," said the cabman, with a grin. "What was it you wanted to ask, sir?"

"First of all your name and address, in case I want you again."

"John Clayton, 3 Turpey Street, the Borough. My cab is out of Shipley's Yard, near Waterloo Station."

Sherlock Holmes made a note of it.

"Now, Clayton, tell me all about the passenger who came and watched this house at ten o'clock this morning and afterwards followed the two gentlemen down Regent Street."

The man looked surprised and a little uncomfortable. "Why, there's no good in my telling you things, for you seem to know as much as I do already," said he. "The truth is that the gentleman told me that he was a detective and that I was to say nothing about him to anyone."

"My good fellow, this is a very serious business, and you may find yourself in a very bad situation if you try to hide anything from me. You say that your passenger told you that he was a detective?"

"Yes, he did."

"When did he say this?"

"When he left me."

"Did he say anything more?"

"He mentioned his name."

Holmes shot a quick look of triumph at me. "Oh, he mentioned his name, did he? That was careless. What was the name that he mentioned?"

"His name," said the cabman, "was Mr. Sherlock Holmes."

Never have I seen my friend more completely taken by surprise than by the cabman's reply. For an instant he sat in silent amazement. Then he burst into a hearty laugh.

"A hit, Watson — an undeniable hit!" said he. "I feel a rival as quick and clever as myself. He got back at me very neatly that time. So his name was Sherlock Holmes, was it?"

"Yes, sir, that was the gentleman's name."

"Excellent! Tell me where you picked him up and all that happened."

"He hailed me at half past nine in Trafalgar Square. He said that he was a detective, and he offered me two pounds if I would do exactly what he wanted all day and ask no questions. I was glad enough to agree. First we drove down to the Northumberland Hotel and waited there until two gentlemen came out and took a cab from the rank. We followed their cab until it stopped somewhere near here."

"This very door," said Holmes.

"Well, I couldn't be sure of that, but I dare say my passenger knew all about it. We pulled up half-way down the street and waited an hour and a half. Then the two gentlemen passed us, walking, and we followed down Baker Street and along —"

"I know," said Holmes.

"Until we got three-quarters down Regent Street. Then my passenger threw up the trap, and he cried that I should drive right away to Waterloo Station as fast as I could go. I drove the horse hard and we were there in under ten minutes. Then he paid his two pounds, like a good one, and went away into the station. Only just as he was leaving he turned round and he said: 'It might interest you to know that you have been driving Mr. Sherlock Holmes.' That's how I come to know the name."

"I see. And you saw no more of him?"

"Not after he went into the station."

"And how would you describe Mr. Sherlock Holmes?"

The cabman scratched his head. "Well, he wasn't altogether such an easy gentleman to describe. I'd put him at forty years of age, and he was of a medium height, two or three inches shorter than you, sir. He was dressed smartly, and he had a black beard, cut square at the end, and a pale face. I don't know that I could say more than that."

"Colour of his eyes?"

"No, I can't say that."

"Nothing more that you can remember?"

"No, sir; nothing."

"Well, then, here is your half sovereign. There's another one waiting for you if you can bring any more information. Good night!"

"Good night, sir, and thank you!"

John Clayton left chuckling, and Holmes turned to me with a shrug of his shoulders and a rueful smile.

"And there goes our third thread, and we end where we began," said he. "The clever rascal! He knew our address, knew that Sir Henry Baskerville had come to see me, recognised who I was in Regent Street, guessed that I had got the number of the cab and would find the driver, and so sent back this bold message. I tell you, Watson, this time we have got an enemy who is worthy of our efforts. I've been beaten in London. I can only wish you better luck in Devonshire. But I'm not easy in my mind about it."

"About what?"

"About sending you. It's an ugly business, Watson, an ugly dangerous business, and the more I see of it the less I like it. Yes, my dear friend, you may laugh, but I give you my word that I shall be very glad to have you back safe and sound in Baker Street once more."

