

  Sir Henry Baskerville and Dr. Mortimer were ready on the agreed day, and we set off as arranged for Devonshire. Mr. Sherlock Holmes drove with me to the station and gave me his final instructions and advice.

"I will not influence your mind by suggesting theories or suspicions, Watson," he said; "I wish you simply to report facts in the fullest possible way to me, and you can leave me to do the theorizing."

"What sort of facts?" I asked.

"Anything which may seem to have a connection however indirect to the case, and especially the relationships between young Baskerville and his neighbours or any new details concerning the death of Sir Charles. I have made some inquiries myself in the last few days, but the results have, I fear, been negative. One thing only appears to be certain, and that is that Mr. James Desmond, who is the next heir, is an elderly gentleman of a very pleasant nature, so that this persecution does not come from him. I really think that we may remove him entirely from our thinking. That leaves the people who will actually be around Sir Henry Baskerville on the moor."

"Would it not be good first to get rid of this Barrymore couple?"

"Not at all. You could not make a greater mistake. If they are innocent it would be a cruel injustice, and if they are guilty we should be throwing away all chance of proving it against them. No, no, we will keep them on our list of suspects. Then there is a groom at the Hall, if I remember correctly. There are two moorland farmers. There is our friend Dr. Mortimer, whom I believe to be completely honest, and there is his wife, about whom we know nothing. There is this naturalist, Stapleton, and there is his sister, who is said to be a young woman of attractions. There is Mr. Frankland, of Lafter Hall, who is also an unknown factor, and there are one or two other neighbours. These are the people who must be your special study."

"I will do my best."

"You have arms, I suppose?"

"Yes, I thought it wise to take them."

"Most certainly. Keep your revolver near you night and day, and never stop being careful."

Our friends had already taken a first-class carriage and were waiting for us on the platform.

"No, we have no news of any kind," said Dr. Mortimer in answer to my friend's questions. "I can swear to one thing, and that is that we have not been followed during the last two days. We have never gone out without keeping a sharp watch, and no one could have escaped our notice."

"You have always stayed together, I presume?"

"Except yesterday afternoon. I usually give up one day to pure enjoyment when I come to town, so I spent it at the Museum of the College of Surgeons."

"And I went to look at the people in the park," said Baskerville. "But we had no trouble of any kind."

"It was unwise, all the same," said Holmes, shaking his head and looking very serious. "I beg, Sir Henry, that you will not go about alone. Some great misfortune will come to you if you do. Did you get your other boot?"

"No, sir, it is gone forever."

"Indeed. That is very interesting. Well, goodbye," he added as the train began to move down the platform. "Bear in mind, Sir Henry, one of the phrases in that strange old legend which Dr. Mortimer has read to us, and avoid the moor in those hours of darkness when the powers of evil are at their strongest."

I looked back at the platform when we had left it far behind, and saw the tall, upright figure of Holmes standing still and watching us go.

The journey was quick and pleasant, and I spent it getting to know my two companions better and playing with Dr. Mortimer's spaniel. In a very few hours the brown earth had become red, the brick had changed to granite, and red cows grazed in well-fenced fields where the lush grass and richer vegetation spoke of a wetter climate. Young Baskerville stared eagerly out of the window, and cried out with delight as he recognised the familiar features of the Devon countryside.

"I've been over a good part of the world since I left it, Dr. Watson," said he; "but I have never seen a place to compare with it."

"I never met a Devonshire man who did not swear by his county," I remarked.

"It depends on the type of men as much as on the county," said Dr. Mortimer. "A glance at our friend here reveals the rounded head of the Celt, which carries inside it the Celtic enthusiasm and power of attachment. Poor Sir Charles's head was of a very rare type, half Gaelic, half Irish in its characteristics. But you were very young when you last saw Baskerville Hall, were you not?"

"I was a teenager at the time of my father's death, and had never seen the Hall, for he lived in a little cottage on the South Coast. From there I went straight to a friend in America. I tell you it is all as new to me as it is to Dr. Watson, and I'm as eager as possible to see the moor."

"Are you? Then your wish is easily granted, for there is your first sight of the moor," said Dr. Mortimer, pointing out of the carriage window.

Over the green fields and the low curve of a wood there rose in the distance a gray, sad hill, with a strange jagged top, dim and unclear in the distance, like some fantastic landscape in a dream. Baskerville sat for a long time, his eyes fixed upon it, and I read on his eager face how much it meant to him, this first sight of that strange spot where the men of his blood had lived for so long and left their mark so deeply. There he sat, with his tweed suit and his American accent, in the corner of an ordinary railway carriage, and yet as I looked at his dark and expressive face I felt more than ever how true a descendant he was of that long line of high-blooded, fiery, and masterful men. There was pride, courage, and strength in his thick brows, his sensitive nose, and his large hazel eyes. If on that threatening moor a difficult and dangerous quest should lie before us, this was at least a companion for whom one might venture to take a risk knowing that he would bravely share it.

The train stopped at a small wayside station and we all got off. Outside, beyond the low white fence, a horse-drawn carriage with two small horses was waiting. Our arrival was clearly a big event, since the station-master and porters gathered around us to carry our luggage. It was a pleasant, simple country place, but I was surprised to see that by the gate there stood two soldier-like men in dark uniforms, who leaned on their short rifles and looked at us sharply as we passed. The coachman, a hard-faced, rough little fellow, greeted Sir Henry Baskerville, and in a few minutes we were driving quickly down the wide, white road. Rolling fields curved upward on either side of us, and old houses with pointed roofs looked out from among thick green trees, but behind the peaceful and sunny countryside there rose ever dark against the evening sky, the long, dark curve of the moor, broken by the jagged and threatening hills.

The carriage turned onto a side road, and we drove upward through deep lanes worn by centuries of wheels, high banks on either side, thick with dripping moss and ferns. Turning brown ferns and spotted brambles shone in the light of the setting sun. Still steadily climbing, we crossed over a narrow stone bridge, and went along beside a noisy stream which ran quickly down, foaming and roaring among the gray boulders. Both road and stream wound up through a valley thick with small oak and fir trees. At every turn Baskerville gave an exclamation of delight, looking eagerly about him and asking many questions. To his eyes all seemed beautiful, but to me a feeling of sadness lay upon the countryside, which showed so clearly the signs of the season coming to an end. Yellow leaves covered the lanes and fell on us as we passed. The sound of our wheels died away as we drove through piles of rotting vegetation — sad gifts, as it seemed to me, for Nature to throw before the carriage of the returning heir of the Baskervilles.

"Hello!" cried Dr. Mortimer, "what is this?"

A steep curve of land covered with heather, a piece of the moor sticking out, lay in front of us. On the top, clear and dark like a rider's statue on its base, was a mounted soldier, serious and still, his rifle ready over his forearm. He was watching the road along which we travelled.

"What is this, Perkins?" asked Dr. Mortimer.

Our driver half turned in his seat.

"There's a convict escaped from Princetown, sir. He's been out three days now, and the warders watch every road and every station, but they've had no sight of him yet. The farmers around here don't like it, sir, and that's a fact."

"Well, I understand that they get five pounds if they can give information."

"Yes, sir, but the chance of five pounds is a poor thing compared to the chance of having your throat cut. You see, it isn't like any ordinary convict. This is a man who would stop at nothing."

"Who is he, then?"

"It is Selden, the Notting Hill murderer."

I remembered the case well, for it was one in which Holmes had taken an interest on account of the particular cruelty of the crime and the senseless violence which had marked all the actions of the killer. His death sentence had been changed because of some doubts about his complete sanity, so terrible was his behaviour. Our carriage had come up over a rise and in front of us rose the huge wide moor, covered with rough and rocky hills. A cold wind swept down from it and made us shiver. Somewhere there, on that lonely plain, was hiding this terrible man, hiding in a hole like a wild animal, his heart full of hatred against all the human race which had rejected him. It needed only this to complete the dark atmosphere of the bare land, the cold wind, and the darkening sky. Even Baskerville fell silent and pulled his overcoat more closely around him.

We had left the fertile country behind and below us. We looked back on it now, the slanting rays of a low sun turning the streams to threads of gold and shining on the red earth freshly turned by the plough and the wide tangle of the woodlands. The road in front of us grew emptier and wilder over huge slopes of red-brown and green, scattered with giant boulders. Now and then we passed a moorland cottage, walled and roofed with stone, with no plants to soften its harsh outline. Suddenly we looked down into a bowl-shaped depression, patched with stunted oaks and firs which had been bent and twisted by years of storms. Two high, narrow towers rose over the trees. The driver pointed with his whip.

"Baskerville Hall," said he.

Its master had risen and was staring with flushed cheeks and shining eyes. A few minutes later we had reached the gate, a complex pattern of iron work, with stone pillars on either side, covered in lichen, and topped with the boar's-head symbols of the Baskervilles. The gate-house was a ruin of black granite and bare wooden beams, but facing it was a new building, half built, the first result of Sir Charles's South African gold.

Through the gateway we passed into the driveway, where the wheels were again quiet among the leaves, and the old trees formed a dark tunnel over our heads with their branches. Baskerville shuddered as he looked up the long, dark drive to where the house appeared like a ghost at the far end.

"Was it here?" he asked quietly.

"No, no, the Yew Alley is on the other side."

The young heir looked around with a gloomy face.

"It's no wonder my uncle felt as if trouble were coming on him in such a place as this," said he. "It's enough to scare any man. I'll have a row of electric lamps up here inside of six months, and you won't know it again, with a thousand candle-power lights right here in front of the hall door."

The driveway opened into a wide area of grass, and the house lay before us. In the fading light I could see that the centre was a heavy block of building from which a porch stuck out. The whole front was covered in ivy, with a patch cut clear here and there where a window or a family crest broke through the dark covering. From this central block rose the two towers, old, with battlements, and with many narrow windows cut in them. To the right and left of the towers were more modern wings of black granite. A dull light shone through heavy, many-paned windows, and from the tall chimneys which rose from the steep, sharply angled roof there rose a single black column of smoke.

"Welcome, Sir Henry! Welcome to Baskerville Hall!"

A tall man had stepped from the shadow of the porch to open the door of the carriage. The figure of a woman was visible against the yellow light of the hall. She came out and helped the man to take down our bags.

"You don't mind my driving straight home, Sir Henry?" said Dr. Mortimer. "My wife is expecting me."

"Surely you will stay and have some dinner?"

"No, I must go. I shall probably find some work waiting for me. I would stay to show you over the house, but Barrymore will be a better guide than I. Goodbye, and never hesitate night or day to send for me if I can be of service."

The sound of wheels died away down the drive while Sir Henry and I turned into the hall, and the door banged heavily behind us. It was a fine room in which we found ourselves, large, with a high ceiling, and heavily beamed with huge pieces of old black oak. In the great old-fashioned fireplace behind the high iron holders a log fire crackled and snapped. Sir Henry and I held out our hands to it, for we were cold from our long drive. Then we looked around us at the tall, thin window of old coloured glass, the oak walls, the deer heads, the family crests on the walls, all dark and gloomy in the weak light of the central lamp.

"It's just as I imagined it," said Sir Henry. "Is it not the very picture of an old family home? To think that this should be the same hall in which for five hundred years my people have lived. It strikes me with solemnity to think of it."

I saw his dark face lit up with a boyish enthusiasm as he looked around him. The light shone on him where he stood, but long shadows stretched down the walls and hung like a black covering above him. Barrymore had returned from taking our luggage to our rooms. He stood in front of us now with the quiet manner of a well-trained servant. He was a striking-looking man, tall, handsome, with a square black beard and pale, distinguished features.

"Would you wish dinner to be served at once, sir?"

"Is it ready?"

"In a very few minutes, sir. You will find hot water in your rooms. My wife and I will be happy, Sir Henry, to stay with you until you have made your new arrangements, but you will understand that under the new conditions this house will need a much larger staff."

"What new conditions?"

"I only meant, sir, that Sir Charles lived a very quiet life, and we were able to look after his needs. You would, naturally, want more company, and so you will need changes in your household."

"Do you mean that your wife and you wish to leave?"

"Only when it is quite convenient to you, sir."

"But your family have been with us for several generations, have they not? I should be sorry to start my life here by breaking an old family connection."

I seemed to see some signs of emotion on the butler's pale face.

"I feel that also, sir, and so does my wife. But to tell the truth, sir, we were both very much attached to Sir Charles, and his death gave us a shock and made these surroundings very painful to us. I fear that we shall never again feel comfortable at Baskerville Hall."

"But what do you intend to do?"

"I have no doubt, sir, that we shall succeed in setting ourselves up in some business. Sir Charles's generosity has given us the means to do so. And now, sir, perhaps I had best show you to your rooms."

A square railing around the top of the old hall ran around the gallery, reached by two staircases. From this central point two long corridors stretched the whole length of the building, from which all the bedrooms opened. My own was in the same wing as Baskerville's and almost next door to it. These rooms appeared to be much more modern than the central part of the house, and the bright wallpaper and many candles did something to remove the dark impression which our arrival had left on my mind.

But the dining room which opened out of the hall was a place of shadow and gloom. It was a long room with a step separating the raised part where the family sat from the lower part kept for their servants. At one end a musicians' gallery looked down on it. Black beams stretched across above our heads, with a smoke-darkened ceiling beyond them. With rows of burning torches to light it and the colour and loud cheerfulness of an old-time feast, it might have seemed warmer; but now, when two men dressed in black sat in the small circle of light from a shaded lamp, one's voice became quiet and one's spirits fell. A long line of ancestors, in every variety of dress, from the Elizabethan knight to the Regency dandy, stared down on us and made us feel small with their silent presence. We talked little, and I for one was glad when the meal was over and we were able to go into the modern billiard room and smoke a cigarette.

"My word, it isn't a very cheerful place," said Sir Henry. "I suppose one gets used to it, but I feel a bit out of place at present. I don't wonder that my uncle got a little nervous if he lived all alone in such a house as this. However, if it suits you, we will go to bed early tonight, and perhaps things may seem more cheerful in the morning."

I pulled aside my curtains before I went to bed and looked out from my window. It opened onto the grassy space which lay in front of the hall door. Beyond, two groups of trees were moving and swaying in a rising wind. A half moon broke through the moving clouds. In its cold light I saw beyond the trees a broken line of rocks, and the long, low curve of the sad moor. I closed the curtain, feeling that my last impression was in keeping with everything else.

And yet it was not quite the last. I found myself tired and yet unable to sleep, turning restlessly from side to side, looking for the sleep that would not come. Far away a clock struck the quarter hours, but otherwise a deathly silence lay upon the old house. And then suddenly, in the very middle of the night, there came a sound to my ears, clear, deep, and impossible to mistake. It was the sob of a woman, the muffled, choking gasp of one who is torn by uncontrollable grief. I sat up in bed and listened intently. The noise could not have been far away and was certainly in the house. For half an hour I waited with every nerve alert, but there came no other sound except the clock and the rustle of the ivy on the wall.

