
 
  The fresh beauty of the following morning did something to clear from our minds the dark and gray impression that had been left on both of us by our first experience of Baskerville Hall. As Sir Henry and I sat at breakfast the sunlight came in through the tall windows, throwing patches of colour from the coats of arms that covered them. The dark wooden walls glowed like bronze in the golden rays, and it was hard to believe that this was indeed the room which had seemed so gloomy to us the evening before.

"I guess it is ourselves and not the house that we have to blame!" said the baronet. "We were tired from our journey and cold from our drive, so we saw the place in a dark light. Now we are fresh and well, so it is all cheerful once more."

"And yet it was not entirely a matter of imagination," I answered. "Did you, for example, happen to hear someone, a woman I think, sobbing in the night?"

"That is strange, for I did when I was half asleep think I heard something of the sort. I waited quite a time, but there was no more of it, so I decided that it was all a dream."

"I heard it clearly, and I am sure that it was really the sob of a woman."

"We must ask about this straight away." He rang the bell and asked Barrymore whether he could explain what we had heard. It seemed to me that the pale features of the butler became a little paler still as he listened to his master's question.

"There are only two women in the house, Sir Henry," he answered. "One is the kitchen maid, who sleeps in the other wing. The other is my wife, and I can assure you that the sound could not have come from her."

And yet he was lying as he said it, for it happened that after breakfast I met Mrs. Barrymore in the long corridor with the sun full on her face. She was a large, calm, heavily-built woman with a hard expression on her mouth. But her eyes told the truth — they were red and looked at me from between swollen eyelids. It was she, then, who had wept in the night, and if she had done so her husband must know it. Yet he had taken the obvious risk of being found out by saying it was not so. Why had he done this? And why did she weep so bitterly? Already around this pale-faced, handsome, black-bearded man there was growing an atmosphere of mystery and gloom. It was he who had been the first to discover the body of Sir Charles, and we had only his word for all the circumstances which had led up to the old man's death. Was it possible that it was Barrymore after all whom we had seen in the cab in Regent Street? The beard might very well have been the same. The cabman had described a somewhat shorter man, but such an impression could easily have been wrong. How could I settle the point for certain? Obviously the first thing to do was to see the Grimpen postmaster, and find whether the test telegram had really been given to Barrymore himself. Whatever the answer might be, I should at least have something to report to Sherlock Holmes.

Sir Henry had many papers to go through after breakfast, so the time was good for my trip. It was a pleasant four-mile walk along the edge of the moor, leading me at last to a small gray village, in which two larger buildings, which turned out to be the inn and the house of Dr. Mortimer, stood above the rest. The postmaster, who was also the village grocer, had a clear memory of the telegram.

"Certainly, sir," said he, "I had the telegram delivered to Mr. Barrymore exactly as directed."

"Who delivered it?"

"My boy here. James, you delivered that telegram to Mr. Barrymore at the Hall last week, did you not?"

"Yes, father, I delivered it."

"Into his own hands?" I asked.

"Well, he was up in the loft at the time, so that I could not put it into his own hands, but I gave it into Mrs. Barrymore's hands, and she promised to deliver it at once."

"Did you see Mr. Barrymore?"

"No, sir; I tell you he was in the loft."

"If you didn't see him, how do you know he was in the loft?"

"Well, surely his own wife ought to know where he is," said the postmaster with some irritation. "Didn't he get the telegram? If there is any mistake it is for Mr. Barrymore himself to complain."

It seemed hopeless to ask any more, but it was clear that in spite of Holmes's trick we had no proof that Barrymore had not been in London all the time. Suppose that it were so — suppose that the same man had been the last to see Sir Charles alive, and the first to follow the new heir when he returned to England. What then? Was he working for others or had he some sinister plan of his own? What reason could he have to trouble the Baskerville family? I thought of the strange warning cut from the Times. Was that his work or was it possibly the work of someone who was trying to block his plans? The only possible motive was the one that Sir Henry had suggested, that if the family could be frightened away a comfortable and permanent home would be given to the Barrymores. But surely such an explanation would be quite insufficient to account for the deep and clever scheming which seemed to be building an invisible trap around the young baronet. Holmes himself had said that no more complex case had ever come to him in all his long series of famous investigations. I prayed, as I walked back along the gray, lonely road, that my friend might soon be free of his other duties and able to come down to take this heavy burden of responsibility from my shoulders.

Suddenly my thoughts were broken by the sound of running feet behind me and by a voice calling my name. I turned, expecting to see Dr. Mortimer, but to my surprise it was a stranger who was coming after me. He was a small, slim, clean-shaven, neat-faced man with light hair and a thin jaw, between thirty and forty years of age, dressed in a gray suit and wearing a straw hat. A tin box for plant samples hung over his shoulder and he carried a green butterfly net in one of his hands.

"You will, I am sure, excuse my boldness, Dr. Watson," said he, as he came running up to where I stood. "Here on the moor we are friendly folk and do not wait for formal introductions. You may possibly have heard my name from our mutual friend, Mortimer. I am Stapleton, of Merripit House."

"Your net and box would have told me as much," said I, "for I knew that Mr. Stapleton was a naturalist. But how did you know me?"

"I have been calling on Mortimer, and he pointed you out to me from the window of his surgery as you passed. As our road went the same way I thought that I would catch up with you and introduce myself. I trust that Sir Henry is none the worse for his journey?"

"He is very well, thank you."

"We were all rather afraid that after the sad death of Sir Charles the new baronet might refuse to live here. It is asking a lot of a wealthy man to come down and bury himself in a place like this, but I need not tell you that it means a very great deal to the local community. Sir Henry has, I suppose, no superstitious fears in the matter?"

"I do not think that it is likely."

"Of course you know the legend of the demon dog which haunts the family?"

"I have heard it."

"It is extraordinary how ready the local people are to believe it around here! Any number of them are ready to swear that they have seen such a creature upon the moor." He spoke with a smile, but I thought I could see in his eyes that he took the matter more seriously. "The story had a great hold on the imagination of Sir Charles, and I have no doubt that it led to his tragic end."

"But how?"

"His nerves were so strained that the sight of any dog might have had a fatal effect on his weak heart. I think that he really did see something of that kind on that last night in the Yew Alley. I was worried that some disaster might happen, for I was very fond of the old man, and I knew that his heart was weak."

"How did you know that?"

"My friend Mortimer told me."

"You think, then, that some dog chased Sir Charles, and that he died of fright as a result?"

"Have you any better explanation?"

"I have not come to any conclusion."

"Has Mr. Sherlock Holmes?"

The words took my breath away for a moment, but a glance at the calm face and steady eyes of my companion showed that no surprise was meant.

"It is useless for us to pretend that we do not know you, Dr. Watson," said he. "The records of your detective have reached us here, and you could not write about him without being known yourself. When Mortimer told me your name he could not deny your identity. If you are here, then it follows that Mr. Sherlock Holmes is interested in the matter, and I am naturally curious to know what view he may take."

"I am afraid that I cannot answer that question."

"May I ask if he is going to honour us with a visit himself?"

"He cannot leave town at present. He has other cases which take his attention."

"What a pity! He might throw some light on what is so dark to us. But as to your own investigation, if there is any possible way in which I can be of service to you I trust that you will call on me. If I had any indication of the nature of your suspicions or how you plan to investigate the case, I might perhaps even now give you some help or advice."

"I assure you that I am simply here as a visitor to my friend, Sir Henry, and that I need no help of any kind."

"Excellent!" said Stapleton. "You are perfectly right to be careful and discreet. I am rightly told off for what I feel was an unjustifiable intrusion, and I promise you that I will not mention the matter again."

We had come to a point where a narrow grassy path turned off from the road and wound across the moor. A steep, boulder-covered hill lay on the right which had in past times been cut into a granite quarry. The side facing us formed a dark cliff, with ferns and brambles growing in its cracks. From over a distant rise there floated a gray plume of smoke.

"A moderate walk along this moor-path brings us to Merripit House," he said. "Perhaps you will give an hour so that I may have the pleasure of introducing you to my sister."

My first thought was that I should be at Sir Henry's side. But then I remembered the pile of papers and bills with which his desk was covered. It was certain that I could not help with those. And Holmes had clearly said that I should study the neighbours on the moor. I accepted Stapleton's invitation, and we turned together down the path.

"It is a wonderful place, the moor," said he, looking around over the rolling landscape, long green hills, with tops of jagged granite rising up like waves. "You never get tired of the moor. You cannot think the wonderful secrets which it contains. It is so vast, and so bare, and so mysterious."

"You know it well, then?"

"I have only been here two years. The residents would call me a newcomer. We came shortly after Sir Charles settled here. But my interests led me to explore every part of the country around, and I should think that there are few men who know it better than I do."

"Is it hard to know?"

"Very hard. You see, for example, this great plain to the north here with the strange hills rising out of it. Do you notice anything remarkable about that?"

"It would be a great place for a gallop."

"You would naturally think so and the thought has cost several their lives before now. Do you notice those bright green spots scattered thickly over it?"

"Yes, they seem more fertile than the rest."

Stapleton laughed.

"That is the great Grimpen Mire," said he. "A false step in there means death to man or beast. Only yesterday I saw one of the moor ponies wander into it. He never came out. I saw his head for quite a long time sticking up out of the bog hole, but it sucked him down at last. Even in dry seasons it is dangerous to cross it, but after these autumn rains it is a terrible place. And yet I can find my way to the very heart of it and come back alive. By George, there is another of those poor ponies!"

Something brown was rolling and struggling among the green plants. Then a long, agonised, twisting neck shot upward and a dreadful cry echoed over the moor. It made me cold with horror, but my companion's nerves seemed stronger than mine.

"It's gone!" said he. "The mire has him. Two in two days, and many more, perhaps, for they get in the habit of going there in dry weather, and never know the difference until the mire has them in its grip. It's a bad place, the great Grimpen Mire."

"And you say you can cross through it?"

"Yes, there are one or two paths that a very active man can take. I have found them out."

"But why would you want to go into such a horrible place?"

"Well, you see the hills beyond? They are really islands cut off on all sides by the impassable mire, which has crept round them over the years. That is where the rare plants and the butterflies are, if you have the ability to reach them."

"I shall try my luck some day."

He looked at me with a surprised face.

"For God's sake put such an idea out of your mind," said he. "Your death would be on my conscience. I assure you that there would not be the smallest chance of your coming back alive. It is only by remembering certain complex landmarks that I am able to do it."

"Hello!" I cried. "What is that?"

A long, low moan, indescribably sad, swept over the moor. It filled the whole air, and yet it was impossible to say where it came from. From a low murmur it grew into a deep sound, and then sank back into a sad, throbbing murmur once again. Stapleton looked at me with a curious expression on his face.

"Strange place, the moor!" said he.

"But what is it?"

"The local people say it is the Hound of the Baskervilles calling for its prey. I've heard it once or twice before, but never quite so loud."

I looked around, with a chill of fear in my heart, at the huge wide plain, patched with the green spots of rushes. Nothing moved over the vast space except a pair of ravens, which called loudly from a rocky hill behind us.

"You are an educated man. You don't believe such nonsense as that?" said I. "What do you think is the cause of so strange a sound?"

"Bogs make strange noises sometimes. It's the mud settling, or the water rising, or something like that."

"No, no, that was a living voice."

"Well, perhaps it was. Have you ever heard a bittern calling?"

"No, I never did."

"It's a very rare bird — practically extinct — in England now, but all things are possible on the moor. Yes, I should not be surprised to learn that what we have heard is the call of the last bittern."

"It's the strangest, most unusual thing I have ever heard in my life."

"Yes, it's rather an eerie place altogether. Look at the hillside over there. What do you make of those?"

The whole steep slope was covered with gray circular rings of stone, many of them at least.

"What are they? Animal pens?"

"No, they are the homes of our ancient ancestors. Prehistoric man lived thickly on the moor, and as no one in particular has lived there since, we find all his little arrangements exactly as he left them. These are his round huts with the roofs fallen in. You can even see his fireplace and his sleeping place if you have the curiosity to go inside."

"But it is quite a town. When was it inhabited?"

"Neolithic man — no exact date."

"What did he do?"

"He kept his cattle on these slopes, and he learned to dig for tin when the bronze sword began to replace the stone axe. Look at the great trench in the opposite hill. That is his mark. Yes, you will find some very interesting points about the moor, Dr. Watson. Oh, excuse me an instant! It is surely Cyclopides."

A small fly or moth had flown across our path, and in an instant Stapleton was rushing with extraordinary energy and speed in pursuit of it. To my worry the creature flew straight for the great mire, and my new acquaintance never stopped for an instant, jumping from piece of ground to piece of ground behind it, his green net waving in the air. His gray clothes and jerky, zigzag, uneven progress made him look rather like some huge moth himself. I was standing watching his chase with a mixture of admiration for his extraordinary energy and fear that he should lose his footing in the dangerous mire, when I heard the sound of steps, and turning round found a woman near me upon the path. She had come from the direction in which the plume of smoke showed the position of Merripit House, but the low ground of the moor had hidden her until she was quite close.

I had no doubt that this was the Miss Stapleton I had been told about, since ladies of any kind would be rare on the moor, and I remembered that I had heard someone describe her as a beauty. The woman who came towards me was certainly that, and of a very unusual type. There could not have been a greater contrast between brother and sister, for Stapleton was pale coloured, with light hair and gray eyes, while she was darker than any dark-haired woman I had seen in England — slim, elegant, and tall. She had a proud, finely formed face, so regular that it might have seemed unemotional were it not for the sensitive mouth and the beautiful dark, eager eyes. With her perfect figure and elegant dress she was, indeed, a strange sight on a lonely moorland path. Her eyes were on her brother as I turned, and then she walked faster towards me. I had raised my hat and was about to make some explanatory remark, when her own words turned all my thoughts in a new direction.

"Go back!" she said. "Go straight back to London, immediately."

I could only stare at her in dumb surprise. Her eyes blazed at me, and she tapped the ground impatiently with her foot.

"Why should I go back?" I asked.

"I cannot explain." She spoke in a low, urgent voice, with a slight accent in her speech. "But for God's sake do what I ask you. Go back and never set foot upon the moor again."

"But I have only just come."

"Man, man!" she cried. "Can you not tell when a warning is for your own good? Go back to London! Start tonight! Get away from this place at all costs! Hush, my brother is coming! Not a word of what I have said. Would you mind getting that orchid for me among the water plants over there? We are very rich in orchids on the moor, though, of course, you are rather late to see the best of the place."

Stapleton had stopped his chase and came back to us breathing hard and flushed with his exertion.

"Hello, Beryl!" said he, and it seemed to me that the tone of his greeting was not completely warm.

"Well, Jack, you are very hot."

"Yes, I was chasing a Cyclopides. It is very rare and seldom found in late autumn. What a pity that I should have missed it!" He spoke calmly, but his small light eyes glanced constantly from the girl to me.

"You have introduced yourselves, I can see."

"Yes. I was telling Sir Henry that it was rather late for him to see the true beauties of the moor."

"Why, who do you think this is?"

"I imagine that it must be Sir Henry Baskerville."

"No, no," said I. "Only a humble commoner, but his friend. My name is Dr. Watson."

A look of annoyance passed over her expressive face. "We have been talking at cross purposes," said she.

"Why, you had not very much time for talk," her brother remarked with the same questioning eyes.

"I was talking to Dr. Watson as if he were a resident instead of being merely a visitor," said she. "It cannot much matter to him whether it is early or late for the orchids. But you will come on, will you not, and see Merripit House?"

A short walk brought us to it, a bare moorland house, once the farm of some farmer in the old prosperous days, but now repaired and turned into a modern home. An orchard surrounded it, but the trees, as is usual on the moor, were stunted and small, and the whole effect of the place was poor and gloomy. We were let in by a strange, thin, rusty-coated old manservant, who seemed to fit in with the house. Inside, however, there were large rooms decorated with an elegance in which I seemed to recognise the taste of the lady. As I looked from their windows at the endless granite-spotted moor rolling unbroken to the farthest horizon I could not help marvelling at what could have brought this highly educated man and this beautiful woman to live in such a place.

"Strange spot to choose, is it not?" said he as if in answer to my thought. "And yet we manage to make ourselves fairly happy, do we not, Beryl?"

"Quite happy," said she, but there was no convincing ring in her words.

"I had a school," said Stapleton. "It was in the north of England. The work to a man of my type was mechanical and uninteresting, but the privilege of living with young people, of helping to shape those young minds, and of influencing them with one's own character and ideas, was very dear to me. However, things went wrong for us. A serious epidemic broke out in the school and three of the boys died. It never recovered from the blow, and much of my money was lost. And yet, if it were not for the loss of the wonderful company of the boys, I could be glad about my own misfortune, for, with my strong interest in plants and animals, I find an endless field of work here, and my sister is as devoted to Nature as I am. All this, Dr. Watson, has been brought up by your expression as you looked at the moor out of our window."

"It certainly did cross my mind that it might be a little dull — less for you, perhaps, than for your sister."

"No, no, I am never dull," said she, quickly.

"We have books, we have our studies, and we have interesting neighbours. Dr. Mortimer is a very learned man in his own field. Poor Sir Charles was also a wonderful companion. We knew him well, and miss him more than I can say. Do you think that I should intrude if I were to call this afternoon and meet Sir Henry?"

"I am sure that he would be delighted."

"Then perhaps you would mention that I plan to do so. We may in our humble way do something to make things easier for him until he gets used to his new surroundings. Will you come upstairs, Dr. Watson, and look at my collection of butterflies and moths? I think it is the most complete one in the south-west of England. By the time that you have looked through them lunch will be almost ready."

But I was eager to get back to Sir Henry. The sadness of the moor, the death of the unfortunate pony, the strange sound which had been connected with the grim legend of the Baskervilles, all these things had coloured my thoughts with sadness. Then on top of these more or less vague feelings there had come the clear and direct warning of Miss Stapleton, delivered with such intense seriousness that I could not doubt that some grave and deep reason lay behind it. I resisted all pressure to stay for lunch, and set off at once on my return journey, taking the grass-covered path by which we had come.

It seems, however, that there must have been some shorter path for those who knew it, for before I had reached the road I was astonished to see Miss Stapleton sitting upon a rock by the side of the track. Her face was beautifully flushed with her exertion, and she held her hand to her side.

"I have run all the way in order to catch you, Dr. Watson," said she. "I had not even time to put on my hat. I must not stop, or my brother may miss me. I wanted to say to you how sorry I am about the stupid mistake I made in thinking that you were Sir Henry. Please forget the words I said, which have no meaning whatever for you."

"But I cannot forget them, Miss Stapleton," said I. "I am Sir Henry's friend, and his wellbeing is a very close concern of mine. Tell me why it was that you were so eager that Sir Henry should return to London."

"A woman's feeling, Dr. Watson. When you know me better you will understand that I cannot always give reasons for what I say or do."

"No, no. I remember the trembling in your voice. I remember the look in your eyes. Please, please, be honest with me, Miss Stapleton, for ever since I have been here I have been aware of shadows all around me. Life has become like that great Grimpen Mire, with little green patches everywhere into which one may sink and with no guide to show the path. Tell me then what it was that you meant, and I will promise to pass your warning to Sir Henry."

A look of uncertainty passed for an instant over her face, but her eyes had become harder again when she answered me.

"You make too much of it, Dr. Watson," said she. "My brother and I were very much shocked by the death of Sir Charles. We knew him very closely, for his favourite walk was over the moor to our house. He was deeply impressed with the curse which hung over the family, and when this tragedy happened I naturally felt that there must be some basis for the fears which he had expressed. I was therefore worried when another member of the family came down to live here, and I felt that he should be warned of the danger he would face. That was all which I intended to say."

"But what is the danger?"

"You know the story of the hound?"

"I do not believe in such nonsense."

"But I do. If you have any influence with Sir Henry, take him away from a place which has always been fatal to his family. The world is wide. Why should he wish to live at the place of danger?"

"Because it is the place of danger. That is Sir Henry's nature. I fear that unless you can give me some more definite information than this it would be impossible to get him to move."

"I cannot say anything definite, for I do not know anything definite."

"I would ask you one more question, Miss Stapleton. If you meant no more than this when you first spoke to me, why should you not want your brother to hear what you said? There is nothing to which he, or anyone else, could object."

"My brother is very eager to have the Hall lived in, for he thinks it is good for the poor people on the moor. He would be very angry if he knew that I had said anything which might cause Sir Henry to go away. But I have done my duty now and I will say no more. I must get back, or he will miss me and suspect that I have seen you. Goodbye!" She turned and had disappeared in a few minutes among the scattered rocks, while I, with my heart full of vague fears, continued on my way to Baskerville Hall.

