

  From this point onward I will follow the course of events by copying out my own letters to Mr. Sherlock Holmes which lie before me on the table. One page is missing, but otherwise they are exactly as I wrote them and show my feelings and suspicions of the moment more accurately than my memory, clear as it is on these tragic events, can possibly do.

Baskerville Hall, October 13th.

MY DEAR HOLMES, — My previous letters and telegrams have kept you fairly well up to date about all that has happened in this most God-forsaken corner of the world. The longer one stays here the more does the spirit of the moor sink into one's soul, its vastness, and also its grim attraction. When you are once out upon its open space you have left all signs of modern England behind you, but on the other hand you are aware everywhere of the homes and the work of prehistoric people. On all sides of you as you walk are the houses of these forgotten folk, with their graves and the huge standing stones which are supposed to have marked their temples. As you look at their gray stone huts against the scarred hillsides you leave your own time behind you, and if you were to see a skin-clothed, hairy man crawl out from the low door fixing a stone-tipped arrow to his bow, you would feel that his presence there was more natural than your own. The strange thing is that they should have lived so thickly on what must always have been very poor soil. I am no expert in ancient history, but I could imagine that they were some peaceful and hunted people who were forced to accept what no one else would live on.

All this, however, is not related to the mission you sent me on and will probably be very uninteresting to your strictly practical mind. I still remember your complete indifference as to whether the sun moved round the earth or the earth round the sun. Let me, therefore, return to the facts concerning Sir Henry Baskerville.

If you have not had any report within the last few days it is because up to today there was nothing of importance to relate. Then a very surprising event happened, which I shall tell you in due course. But, first of all, I must keep you informed about some of the other aspects of the situation.

One of these, concerning which I have said little, is the escaped convict on the moor. There is strong reason now to believe that he has got completely away, which is a considerable relief to the lonely householders of this area. Two weeks have passed since his escape, during which he has not been seen and nothing has been heard of him. It is surely impossible that he could have survived on the moor during all that time. Of course, so far as hiding goes there is no difficulty at all. Any one of these stone huts would give him a place to hide. But there is nothing to eat unless he were to catch and kill one of the moor sheep. We think, therefore, that he has gone, and the outlying farmers sleep better as a result.

We are four able-bodied men in this household, so we could take good care of ourselves, but I confess that I have had uneasy moments when I have thought of the Stapletons. They live miles from any help. There are one maid, an old manservant, the sister, and the brother, the latter not a very strong man. They would be helpless in the hands of a desperate man like this Notting Hill criminal, if he could once get in. Both Sir Henry and I were concerned about their situation, and it was suggested that Perkins the groom should go over to sleep there, but Stapleton would not hear of it.

The fact is that our friend, the baronet, is showing a considerable interest in our attractive neighbour. It is not surprising, for time passes slowly in this lonely spot for an active man like him, and she is a very attractive and beautiful woman. There is something exotic and southern about her which forms a striking contrast to her cool and unemotional brother. Yet he also gives the idea of hidden feelings. He certainly has a very strong influence over her, for I have seen her constantly glance at him as she talked as if looking for his approval for what she said. I trust that he is kind to her. There is a cold shine in his eyes, and a firm set of his thin lips, which goes with a determined and possibly harsh nature. You would find him an interesting study.

He came over to call upon Baskerville on that first day, and the very next morning he took us both to show us the spot where the legend of the wicked Hugo is supposed to have had its origin. It was an excursion of some miles across the moor to a place which is so gloomy that it might have inspired the story. We found a short valley between rough rocky hills which led to an open, grassy space dotted over with white cotton grass. In the middle of it rose two great stones, worn and sharp at the upper end, until they looked like the huge rotting teeth of some monstrous beast. In every way it matched the scene of the old tragedy. Sir Henry was very interested and asked Stapleton more than once whether he really believed in the possibility of supernatural involvement in the affairs of men. He spoke lightly, but it was clear that he was very much in earnest. Stapleton was careful in his replies, but it was easy to see that he said less than he might, and that he would not express his whole opinion out of consideration for the feelings of the baronet. He told us of similar cases, where families had suffered from some evil influence, and he left us with the impression that he shared the popular belief on the matter.

On our way back we stopped for lunch at Merripit House, and it was there that Sir Henry met Miss Stapleton. From the first moment that he saw her he seemed to be strongly attracted to her, and I am much mistaken if the feeling was not mutual. He mentioned her again and again on our walk home, and since then hardly a day has passed that we have not seen something of the brother and sister. They have dinner here tonight, and there is some talk of our going to them next week. One would imagine that such a match would be very welcome to Stapleton, and yet I have more than once caught a look of the strongest disapproval on his face when Sir Henry has been paying some attention to his sister. He is very attached to her, no doubt, and would lead a lonely life without her, but it would seem the height of selfishness if he were to stand in the way of her making so brilliant a marriage. Yet I am certain that he does not wish their friendship to deepen into love, and I have several times noticed that he has taken care to prevent them from being alone together. By the way, your instructions to me never to allow Sir Henry to go out alone will become very much more difficult if a love affair were to be added to our other difficulties. My popularity would soon suffer if I were to carry out your orders exactly.

The other day — Thursday, to be more precise — Dr. Mortimer had lunch with us. He has been digging up an ancient burial mound at Long Down, and has found a prehistoric skull which fills him with great joy. Never was there such a single-minded enthusiast as he! The Stapletons came in afterwards, and the good doctor took us all to the Yew Alley, at Sir Henry's request, to show us exactly how everything happened on that fatal night. It is a long, gloomy walk, the Yew Alley, between two high walls of trimmed hedge, with a narrow strip of grass upon either side. At the far end is an old broken-down summer house. Half-way down is the moor-gate, where the old man left his cigar ash. It is a white wooden gate with a latch. Beyond it lies the wide moor. I remembered your theory of the affair and tried to picture all that had occurred. As the old man stood there he saw something coming across the moor, something which terrified him so that he lost his mind, and ran and ran until he died of pure horror and exhaustion. There was the long, gloomy tunnel down which he fled. And from what? A sheep-dog of the moor? Or a supernatural hound, black, silent, and enormous? Was there a human hand in the matter? Did the pale, watchful Barrymore know more than he cared to say? It was all unclear and vague, but always there is the dark shadow of crime behind it.

One other neighbour I have met since I wrote last. This is Mr. Frankland, of Lafter Hall, who lives some four miles to the south of us. He is an elderly man, red-faced, white-haired, and quick-tempered. His passion is for the British law, and he has spent a large fortune on lawsuits. He fights for the mere pleasure of fighting and is equally ready to take either side of a question, so that it is no wonder that he has found it a costly hobby. Sometimes he will close a right of way and challenge the village to make him open it. At other times he will with his own hands tear down some other man's gate and declare that a path has existed there since ancient times, daring the owner to take him to court for trespassing. He is learned in old land rights, and he uses his knowledge sometimes in favour of the villagers of Fernworthy and sometimes against them, so that he is regularly either carried in triumph down the village street or else burned as an effigy, depending on his latest action. He is said to have about seven lawsuits on his hands at present, which will probably use up the rest of his fortune and so take away his power to cause trouble in the future. Apart from the law he seems a kind, good-natured person, and I only mention him because you were keen that I should send some description of the people who surround us. He is employed in an interesting way at present, for, being an amateur astronomer, he has an excellent telescope, with which he lies on the roof of his own house and sweeps the moor all day in the hope of catching a glimpse of the escaped convict. If he would limit his energies to this all would be well, but there are rumours that he intends to take Dr. Mortimer to court for opening a grave without the consent of the next-of-kin, because he dug up the Neolithic skull in the burial mound on Long Down. He helps to keep our lives from being monotonous and gives a little light relief where it is badly needed.

And now, having brought you up to date on the escaped convict, the Stapletons, Dr. Mortimer, and Frankland, of Lafter Hall, let me end on what is most important and tell you more about the Barrymores, and especially about the surprising development of last night.

First of all about the test telegram, which you sent from London in order to make sure that Barrymore was really here. I have already explained that the testimony of the postmaster shows that the test was worthless and that we have no proof one way or the other. I told Sir Henry how the matter stood, and he at once, in his direct way, had Barrymore up and asked him whether he had received the telegram himself. Barrymore said that he had.

"Did the boy deliver it into your own hands?" asked Sir Henry.

Barrymore looked surprised, and thought for a little time.

"No," said he, "I was in the box-room at the time, and my wife brought it up to me."

"Did you answer it yourself?"

"No; I told my wife what to answer and she went down to write it."

In the evening he came back to the subject on his own.

"I could not quite understand the purpose of your questions this morning, Sir Henry," said he. "I trust that they do not mean that I have done anything to lose your confidence?"

Sir Henry had to assure him that it was not so and calm him down by giving him a considerable part of his old wardrobe, the London clothes having now all arrived.

Mrs. Barrymore is of interest to me. She is a heavy, solid person, very limited in her thinking, intensely respectable, and rather strict in her views. You could hardly imagine a less emotional person. Yet I have told you how, on the first night here, I heard her sobbing bitterly, and since then I have more than once noticed signs of tears on her face. Some deep sorrow gnaws constantly at her heart. Sometimes I wonder if she has a guilty memory which haunts her, and sometimes I suspect Barrymore of being cruel at home. I have always felt that there was something unusual and questionable in this man's character, but the events of last night bring all my suspicions to a head.

And yet it may seem a small matter in itself. You know that I am not a very sound sleeper, and since I have been keeping watch in this house my sleep has been lighter than ever. Last night, about two in the morning, I was woken by a quiet step passing my room. I got up, opened my door, and looked out. A long black shadow was moving down the corridor. It was made by a man who walked softly down the passage with a candle held in his hand. He was in his shirt and trousers, with no covering on his feet. I could only see the outline, but his height told me that it was Barrymore. He walked very slowly and carefully, and there was something indescribably guilty and sneaky in his whole appearance.

I have told you that the corridor is broken by the gallery which runs round the hall, but that it continues on the far side. I waited until he had passed out of sight and then I followed him. When I came round the gallery he had reached the end of the far corridor, and I could see from the light shining through an open door that he had entered one of the rooms. Now, all these rooms are empty and unfurnished, so that his journey became more mysterious than ever. The light shone steadily as if he were standing still. I crept down the passage as quietly as I could and looked around the corner of the door.

Barrymore was crouching at the window with the candle held against the glass. His face was half turned towards me, and it seemed to be fixed with expectation as he stared out into the darkness of the moor. For some minutes he stood watching intently. Then he gave a deep groan and with an impatient movement he put out the light. Immediately I made my way back to my room, and very shortly came the quiet steps passing once more on their return journey. Long afterwards when I had fallen into a light sleep I heard a key turn somewhere in a lock, but I could not tell where the sound came from. What it all means I cannot guess, but there is some secret business going on in this house of gloom which sooner or later we shall get to the bottom of. I will not trouble you with my theories, for you asked me to give you only facts. I have had a long talk with Sir Henry this morning, and we have made a plan based on my observations of last night. I will not speak about it just now, but it should make my next report interesting reading.

