

  "Let's go into the garden, out through the back way," suggested Laura. "I want to see how the men are getting on with the tent. They are such wonderfully nice men."

But the back door was blocked by cook, Sadie, Godber's man and Hans.

Something had happened.

"Tut-tut-tut," clucked cook like a worried hen. Sadie had her hand pressed to her cheek as if she had a toothache. Hans's face was twisted up as he tried to understand. Only Godber's man seemed to be enjoying himself. It was his story to tell.

"What's the matter? What has happened?"

"There's been a terrible accident," said cook. "A man killed."

"A man killed! Where? How? When?"

But Godber's man was not going to let anyone take his story away from him.

"Do you know those small cottages just below here, miss?" Know them? Of course she knew them. "Well, there's a young man living there, his name is Scott, he drives a cart. His horse was frightened by a traction engine at the corner of Hawke Street this morning, and he was thrown off and landed on the back of his head. Killed."

"Dead!" Laura stared at Godber's man.

"Dead when they picked him up," said Godber's man with satisfaction. "They were carrying his body home as I came up here." And he said to the cook, "He's left a wife and five young children."

"Jose, come here." Laura took hold of her sister's sleeve and pulled her through the kitchen to the other side of the green door. There she stopped and leaned against it. "Jose!" she said, horrified. "How are we going to stop everything?"

"Stop everything, Laura!" cried Jose in surprise. "What do you mean?"

"Stop the garden party, of course." Why was Jose pretending not to understand?

But Jose was even more surprised. "Stop the garden party? My dear Laura, don't be so foolish. Of course we cannot do anything like that. Nobody expects us to. Don't be so dramatic."

"But we cannot possibly have a garden party when a man has died just outside our front gate."

That really was dramatic, because the small cottages were in a lane of their own at the very bottom of a steep slope that led up to the house. A wide road ran between them. True, they were far too close. They were a terrible sight, and they had no right to be in that neighbourhood at all. They were small, poor-looking houses painted a dark brown. In the small gardens there was nothing but old cabbage plants, thin chickens and old tin cans. Even the smoke coming out of their chimneys looked poor and thin — small, sad little puffs of smoke, so different from the large silver clouds that rose from the Sheridans' chimneys. Washerwomen lived in the lane, and chimney sweeps and a cobbler, and a man whose house front was covered all over with tiny bird cages. Children were everywhere. When the Sheridan children were young they were not allowed to go there because of the bad language and what they might catch. But now that they were grown up, Laura and Laurie sometimes walked through on their walks. It was unpleasant and dirty. They always came out feeling disgusted. But still, one must go everywhere. One must see everything. So they went through.

"And just think of what the band music would sound like to that poor woman," said Laura.

"Oh, Laura!" Jose began to get seriously annoyed. "If you're going to stop a band playing every time someone has an accident, you will have a very exhausting life. I am just as sorry about it as you are. I feel just as sympathetic." Her eyes went cold. She looked at her sister the same way she used to when they were young and arguing. "You won't bring a drunk workman back to life by being sentimental," she said quietly.

"Drunk! Who said he was drunk?" Laura turned angrily on Jose. She said, just as they used to say in those arguments, "I'm going straight upstairs to tell mother."

"Go ahead, dear," said Jose in a sweet voice.

"Mother, may I come into your room?" Laura turned the large glass door handle.

"Of course, child. But what's the matter? Why do you have such a red face?" And Mrs. Sheridan turned round from her dressing table. She was trying on a new hat.

"Mother, a man has been killed," began Laura.

"Not in the garden?" her mother interrupted.

"No, no!"

"Oh, you gave me such a fright!" Mrs. Sheridan sighed with relief and took off the big hat and held it on her knees.

"But listen, mother," said Laura. She was breathing fast, almost unable to speak, and she told her the terrible story. "Of course, we cannot have our party, can we?" she pleaded. "The band and all the guests arriving. They would hear us, mother. These people are nearly our neighbours!"

To Laura's surprise her mother reacted just like Jose, which was harder to accept because she seemed amused. She refused to take Laura seriously.

"But my dear child, use your common sense. We only know about it by chance. If someone had died there in the normal way — and I really cannot understand how they manage to stay alive in those cramped little houses — we would still be having our party, wouldn't we?"

Laura had to say "yes" to that, but she felt it was all wrong. She sat down on her mother's sofa and pinched the decorative edge of a cushion.

"Mother, isn't it terribly heartless of us?" she asked.

"Darling!" Mrs. Sheridan stood up and came over to her, carrying the hat. Before Laura could stop her, she had placed it on Laura's head. "My child!" said her mother. "The hat is yours. It was made for you. It is far too young for me. I have never seen you look so beautiful. Look at yourself!" And she held up her small mirror.

"But, mother," Laura began again. She could not look at herself and turned away.

This time Mrs. Sheridan ran out of patience, just as Jose had done.

"You are being very foolish, Laura," she said coldly. "People like that do not expect us to make sacrifices for them. And it is not very thoughtful to ruin everyone's enjoyment the way you are doing now."

"I do not understand," said Laura, and she walked quickly out of the room and into her own bedroom. There, quite by chance, the first thing she saw was a charming girl in the mirror, wearing a black hat decorated with gold daisies and a long black velvet ribbon. She had never imagined she could look like that. Is mother right? she thought. And now she hoped her mother was right. Am I being dramatic? Perhaps it was too dramatic. Just for a moment she had another image in her mind of that poor woman and those small children, and the body being carried into the house. But it all seemed unclear and unreal, like a picture in the newspaper. I'll think about it again after the party is over, she decided. And somehow that seemed like the best plan.

Lunch was finished by half past one. By half past two they were all ready. The band wearing green jackets had arrived and was set up in a corner of the tennis court.

"My dear!" said Kitty Maitland excitedly. "Don't they look exactly like frogs? You should have arranged them around the pond with the conductor in the middle on a lily pad."

Laurie arrived and waved to them on his way to get changed. When Laura saw him she remembered the accident again. She wanted to tell him. If Laurie agreed with the others, then it must be the right thing. And she followed him into the hall.
