

  Light shone in the windows of the house. Two square patches of golden light fell on the pinks and the tall marigolds. Florrie, the cat, came out on to the veranda and sat on the top step, her white paws close together, her tail curled around her. She looked satisfied, as if she had been waiting for this moment all day.

"Thank goodness, it's getting late," said Florrie. "Thank goodness, the long day is over." Her green eyes opened wide.

Soon came the rumble of the coach and the crack of Kelly's whip. It came near enough to hear the voices of the men coming from town, talking loudly together. It stopped at the Burnells' gate.

Stanley was halfway up the path before he saw Linda. "Is that you, darling?"

"Yes, Stanley."

He jumped across the flower bed and took her in his arms. She was held in that familiar, eager, strong embrace.

"Forgive me, darling, forgive me," Stanley said quickly, and he put his hand under her chin and lifted her face towards him.

"Forgive you?" smiled Linda. "But whatever for?"

"Good God! You can't have forgotten," cried Stanley Burnell. "I've thought of nothing else all day. I've had a terrible day. I decided to rush out and send a telegram, and then I thought the message might not reach you before I did. I've been in agony, Linda."

"But, Stanley," said Linda, "what must I forgive you for?"

"Linda!"—Stanley was very hurt—"didn't you realize—you must have realized—I went away without saying good-bye to you this morning? I can't understand how I could have done such a thing. My awful temper, of course. But—well"—and he sighed and held her in his arms again—"I've suffered enough for it today."

"What's that you've got in your hand?" asked Linda. "New gloves? Let me see."

"Oh, just a cheap pair of leather ones," said Stanley humbly. "I noticed Bell was wearing some in the coach this morning, so, as I was passing the shop, I went in quickly and got myself a pair. What are you smiling at? You don't think it was wrong of me, do you?"

"On the contrary, darling," said Linda, "I think it was very sensible."

She pulled one of the large, pale gloves on to her own fingers and looked at her hand, turning it this way and that. She was still smiling.

Stanley wanted to say, "I was thinking of you the whole time I bought them." It was true, but for some reason he couldn't say it. "Let's go in," said he.
