

  He had meant to be there earlier, but in the front garden he had come across Linda walking up and down on the grass, stopping to pick off a dead pink flower or to support a heavy carnation that was bending over, or to take a deep breath of something, and then walking on again with her slightly distant manner. Over her white dress she wore a yellow, pink-edged shawl from the Chinese shop.

"Hello, Jonathan!" called Linda. And Jonathan quickly took off his worn panama hat, pressed it against his chest, went down on one knee, and kissed Linda's hand.

"Greetings, my beautiful one! Greetings, my lovely Peach Blossom!" the deep voice said gently. "Where are the other fine ladies?"

"Beryl's out playing cards and mother's giving the boy his bath.... Have you come to borrow something?"

The Trouts were always running out of things and sending across to the Burnells' at the last minute.

But Jonathan only answered, "A little love, a little kindness," and he walked beside his sister-in-law.

Linda dropped into Beryl's hammock under the manuka tree, and Jonathan stretched himself on the grass beside her, picked a long stem of grass and began chewing it. They knew each other well. The voices of children came from the other gardens. A fisherman's light cart moved along the sandy road, and from far away they heard a dog barking. The sound was muffled, as though the dog had its head in a bag. If you listened carefully you could just hear the soft movement of the sea at full tide washing over the pebbles. The sun was going down.

"And so you go back to the office on Monday, do you, Jonathan?" asked Linda.

"On Monday the cage door opens and bangs shut on the prisoner again for another eleven months and a week," answered Jonathan.

Linda swung gently. "It must be awful," she said slowly.

"Would you have me laugh, my dear sister? Would you have me cry?"

Linda was so used to Jonathan's way of talking that she paid no attention to it.

"I suppose," she said vaguely, "one gets used to it. One gets used to anything."

"Does one? Hm!" The "Hm" was so deep it seemed to come from under the ground. "I wonder how it's done," Jonathan thought aloud. "I've never managed it."

Looking at him as he lay there, Linda thought again how attractive he was. It was strange to think that he was just an ordinary office worker, and that Stanley earned twice as much money as he did. What was the matter with Jonathan? He had no ambition. She supposed that was it. And yet you felt that he was gifted, unusual. He loved music deeply, and every spare penny he had went on books. He was always full of new ideas, plans, schemes. But nothing ever came of any of it. The new enthusiasm burned in Jonathan. You could almost hear it roaring softly as he explained, described and spoke excitedly about the new thing. But a moment later it had all died down and there was nothing left but ashes, and Jonathan went around with a look like hunger in his dark eyes. At these times he exaggerated his strange way of speaking, and he sang in church—he was the leader of the choir—with such intense passion that the simplest hymn took on a dramatic power.

"It seems to me just as foolish, just as terrible, to have to go to the office on Monday," said Jonathan, "as it always has and always will. To spend all the best years of one's life sitting on a stool from nine to five, writing in somebody's account book! It's a strange way to use one's... one and only life, isn't it? Or am I wrong?" He rolled over on the grass and looked up at Linda. "Tell me, what is the difference between my life and that of an ordinary prisoner? The only difference I can see is that I put myself in prison and nobody's ever going to let me out. That's a harder situation than the other. Because if I'd been pushed in, against my will—struggling, even—once the door was locked, or at least in five years or so, I might have accepted it and begun to take an interest in the way flies move, or in counting the guard's footsteps along the passage, noticing the small changes in his walk. But as it is, I'm like an insect that has flown into a room of its own free will. I crash against the walls, crash against the windows, fall against the ceiling, do everything possible, in fact, except fly out again. And all the time I'm thinking, like that moth, or that butterfly, or whatever it is, 'How short life is! How short life is!' I've only one night or one day, and there's this enormous wonderful garden, waiting out there, undiscovered, unexplored."

"But, if you feel like that, why—" began Linda quickly.

"Ah!" cried Jonathan. And that "ah!" was almost triumphant. "There you have it. Why? Why indeed? That's the maddening, mysterious question. Why don't I fly out again? There's the window or the door or whatever it was I came in by. It's not completely shut—is it? Why don't I find it and go? Answer me that, little sister." But he gave her no time to answer.

"I'm exactly like that insect again. For some reason"—Jonathan paused between the words—"it's not allowed, it's forbidden, it's against the insect's natural behaviour, to stop crashing and falling and crawling up the glass even for a moment. Why don't I leave the office? Why don't I seriously think about, right now, for example, what it is that stops me leaving? It's not as though I'm terribly tied down. I have two boys to provide for, but after all, they're boys. I could go off to sea, or get a job in the country, or—" Suddenly he smiled at Linda and said in a changed voice, as if sharing a secret, "Weak... weak. No strength of will. No firm base. No guiding principle, let's call it." But then the dark, smooth voice rolled out:

Would you hear the story
How it unfolds itself. . .

and they were silent.

The sun had set. In the western sky there were great masses of crushed pink clouds. Wide beams of light shone through the clouds and beyond them, as if they would cover the whole sky. Above them the blue faded. It turned a pale gold, and the bush outlined against it looked dark and bright like metal. Sometimes when those beams of light appear in the sky they are very frightening. They remind you that up there sits God, the jealous God, the all-powerful one, whose eye is upon you, always watching, never tired. You remember that at his coming the whole earth will shake into one ruined graveyard. The cold bright angels will drive you this way and that, and there will be no time to explain what could be explained so simply.... But tonight it seemed to Linda there was something infinitely joyful and loving in those silver beams. And now no sound came from the sea. It breathed softly as if it would draw that tender, joyful beauty into its own heart.

"It's all wrong, it's all wrong," came the shadowy voice of Jonathan. "It's not the scene, it's not the right setting for... three stools, three desks, three ink pots and a wire blind."

Linda knew that he would never change, but she said, "Is it too late, even now?"

"I'm old—I'm old," said Jonathan in a low voice. He bent towards her and passed his hand over his head. "Look!" His black hair was dotted all over with grey, like the chest feathers of a black bird.

Linda was surprised. She had no idea that he was going grey. And yet, as he stood up beside her and sighed and stretched, she saw him, for the first time, not full of energy, not brave, not carefree, but already touched by age. He looked very tall against the darkening grass, and the thought came to her mind, "He is like a weed."

Jonathan bent down again and kissed her fingers.

"May heaven reward your sweet patience, dear lady," he murmured. "I must go and find those who will carry on my name and fortune...." He was gone.
