

  Why does one feel so different at night? Why is it so exciting to be awake when everybody else is asleep? It's so late! And yet every moment you feel more and more awake, as if you were slowly, almost with every breath, waking up into a new, wonderful, much more exciting world than the daytime one. And what is this strange feeling that you're someone with a secret? Lightly, carefully you move around your room. You pick something up from the dressing table and put it down again without a sound. And everything, even the bedpost, seems to know you, to respond, to share your secret....

You're not very fond of your room during the day. You never think about it. You come in and out, the door opens and bangs, the cupboard makes a noise. You sit on the side of your bed, change your shoes and rush out again. A quick look in the mirror, two pins in your hair, powder your nose and off again. But now—it's suddenly dear to you. It's a sweet little funny room. It's yours. Oh, what a joy it is to own things! Mine—my very own!

"My very own for ever?"

"Yes." Their lips met.

No, of course, that had nothing to do with it. That was all nonsense. But, in spite of herself, Beryl saw very clearly two people standing in the middle of her room. Her arms were around his neck. He held her. And now he whispered, "My beauty, my little beauty!" She jumped off her bed, ran over to the window and knelt on the window seat, with her elbows on the ledge. But the beautiful night, the garden, every bush, every leaf, even the white fence posts, even the stars, were keeping secrets too. The moon was so bright that the flowers were as clear as by day. The shadow of the nasturtiums, with their beautiful leaves and wide open flowers, lay across the silver veranda. The manuka tree, bent by the south winds, was like a bird on one leg stretching out a wing.

But when Beryl looked at the bush, it seemed to her the bush was sad.

"We are silent trees, reaching up in the night, asking for we don't know what," said the sorrowful bush.

It is true that when you are by yourself and you think about life, it is always sad. All that excitement suddenly leaves you, and it's as though, in the silence, someone called your name, and you heard your name for the first time. "Beryl!"

"Yes, I'm here. I'm Beryl. Who wants me?"

"Beryl!"

"Let me come."

It is lonely living by oneself. Of course, there are family members, friends, many of them. But that's not what she means. She wants someone who will find the Beryl that none of them know, who will expect her to always be that Beryl. She wants a lover.

"Take me away from all these other people, my love. Let us go far away. Let us live our life, all new, all ours, from the very beginning. Let us make our fire. Let us sit down and eat together. Let us have long talks at night."

And the thought was almost, "Save me, my love. Save me!"

... "Oh, go on! Don't be so proper, my dear. Enjoy yourself while you're young. That's my advice." And a burst of silly laughter joined Mrs. Harry Kember's loud, uncaring laugh.

You see, it's so terribly difficult when you have nobody. You're so at the mercy of things. You can't just be rude. And you always have this fear of seeming inexperienced and boring like the other dull women at the Bay. And—and it's exciting to know you have power over people. Yes, that is exciting....

Oh why, oh why doesn't "he" come soon?

If I go on living here, thought Beryl, anything may happen to me.

"But how do you know he is coming at all?" said a small voice inside her.

But Beryl pushed the thought away. She couldn't be left alone. Other people, perhaps, but not her. It wasn't possible to imagine that Beryl Fairfield never married, that lovely, fascinating girl.

"Do you remember Beryl Fairfield?"

"Remember her! As if I could forget her! It was one summer at the Bay that I saw her. She was standing on the beach in a blue"—no, pink—"light dress, holding on to a big cream"—no, black—"straw hat. But it's years ago now."

"She's as lovely as ever, more so if anything."

Beryl smiled, bit her lip, and looked out over the garden. As she looked, she saw someone, a man, leave the road and walk along the field beside their fence as if he was coming straight towards her. Her heart beat fast. Who was it? Who could it be? It certainly wasn't a burglar. He was smoking and walking in a relaxed way. Beryl's heart jumped. It seemed to turn right over, and then to stop. She recognized him.

"Good evening, Miss Beryl," said the voice softly.

"Good evening."

"Won't you come for a little walk?" the voice said slowly.

Come for a walk—at that time of night! "I couldn't. Everybody's in bed. Everybody's asleep."

"Oh," said the voice lightly, and a smell of sweet smoke reached her. "What does everybody matter? Do come! It's such a fine night. There's not a soul around."

Beryl shook her head. But already something stirred inside her, something lifted its head.

The voice said, "Frightened?" It mocked, "Poor little girl!"

"Not in the least," said she. As she spoke, that weak thing inside her seemed to unfold, to grow suddenly very strong. She longed to go!

And just as if this was perfectly understood by the other person, the voice said, gently and softly, but firmly, "Come along!"

Beryl stepped out over her low window, crossed the veranda, ran down the grass to the gate. He was there before her.

"That's right," the voice breathed, and it teased, "You're not frightened, are you? You're not frightened?"

She was. Now that she was here she was terrified, and it seemed to her that everything was different. The moonlight stared and glittered. The shadows were like iron bars. Her hand was taken.

"Not in the least," she said lightly. "Why should I be?"

Her hand was pulled gently, then more firmly. She held back.

"No, I'm not coming any further," said Beryl.

"Oh, nonsense!" Harry Kember didn't believe her. "Come along! We'll just go as far as that fuchsia bush. Come along!"

The fuchsia bush was tall. It fell over the fence like a shower of flowers. There was a small patch of darkness beneath it.

"No, really, I don't want to," said Beryl.

For a moment Harry Kember didn't answer. Then he came close to her, turned to her, smiled and said quickly, "Don't be silly! Don't be silly!"

His smile was something she had never seen before. Was he drunk? That bright, empty, terrifying smile froze her with horror. What was she doing? How had she got here? The stern garden seemed to ask her as the gate was pushed open, and quick as a cat Harry Kember came through and grabbed her to him.

"Cold little devil! Cold little devil!" said the hateful voice.

But Beryl was strong. She slipped away, ducked down, and pulled herself free.

"You are vile, completely vile," said she.

"Then why on earth did you come?" Harry Kember said loudly.

Nobody answered him.

A cloud, small and calm, floated across the moon. In that moment of darkness the sea sounded deep and troubled. Then the cloud moved away, and the sound of the sea was a quiet murmur, as if it had woken from a dark dream. Everything was still.
