

  A few moments later the back door of one of the houses opened, and a figure in a wide-striped swimming costume ran down across the field, jumped over the fence, rushed through the rough grass into the hollow, climbed up the sandy hill, and ran as fast as possible over the large porous stones, over the cold wet pebbles, on to the hard sand that shone like oil. Splish-Splosh! Splish-Splosh! The water moved around his legs as Stanley Burnell waded in happily. First man in as usual! He had beaten them all again. And he bent down to put his head and neck under the water.

"Hello, brother! All praise to you, Great One!" A smooth, deep voice came across the water.

Good God! Damn it! Stanley looked up to see a dark head bobbing far away and an arm raised. It was Jonathan Trout—there before him! "Beautiful morning!" sang the voice.

"Yes, very nice!" said Stanley shortly. Why on earth didn't the man stay on his own part of the sea? Why did he have to come here to this exact spot? Stanley kicked, pushed forward and began swimming with his arms. But Jonathan was just as good a swimmer. He came up, his black hair flat on his forehead, his short beard flat and wet.

"I had a very strange dream last night!" he called out.

What was wrong with this man? This need to talk annoyed Stanley more than he could say. And it was always the same—always some nonsense about a dream he'd had, or some strange idea he'd got, or some rubbish he'd been reading. Stanley turned on to his back and kicked his legs until water sprayed up around him. But even then.... "I dreamed I was hanging over an extremely high cliff, shouting to someone below." Of course you were! thought Stanley. He could not stand any more of it. He stopped splashing. "Look here, Trout," he said, "I'm in rather a hurry this morning."

"You're WHAT?" Jonathan seemed so surprised—or pretended to be—that he went under the water, then came up again blowing.

"All I mean is," said Stanley, "I have no time to—to—to mess around. I want to get this done. I'm in a hurry. I have work to do this morning—understand?"

Jonathan was gone before Stanley had finished. "Go ahead, friend!" said the deep voice quietly, and he moved away through the water making almost no ripple.... But the man had ruined his swim! What a useless, impractical man he was! Stanley swam out to sea again, then quickly swam back, and rushed up the beach. He felt cheated.

Jonathan stayed a little longer in the water. He floated, gently moving his hands like fins, letting the sea rock his long, thin body. It was strange, but despite everything he liked Stanley Burnell. It was true that he sometimes had a strong desire to tease him, to make fun of him, but deep down he felt sorry for the man. There was something sad about his determination to make a proper job of everything. You couldn't help feeling he'd be caught out one day, and then what a terrible fall he'd have! At that moment an enormous wave lifted Jonathan, moved past him, and broke along the beach with a happy sound. What a wonderful wave! And now another came. That was the way to live—carelessly, freely, giving yourself completely. He got to his feet and began to walk towards the shore, pressing his toes into the firm, ridged sand. To take things easily, not to fight against the natural flow of life, but to go with it—that was what was needed. It was this stress and tension that was all wrong. To live—to live! And the perfect morning, so fresh and bright, enjoying its own beauty, seemed to whisper, "Why not?"

But now that he was out of the water Jonathan turned blue with cold. He ached all over; it felt as though someone was squeezing all the blood out of him. And walking up the beach, shaking, all his muscles tight, he too felt his swim was ruined. He had stayed in too long.
