

  Beryl was alone in the living room when Stanley appeared, wearing a blue suit, a stiff collar and a spotted tie. He looked almost strangely clean and neat. He was going to the town for the day. He sat down in his chair, took out his watch and put it beside his plate.

"I've got exactly twenty-five minutes," he said. "Could you go and check if the porridge is ready, Beryl?"

"Mother has just gone to get it," said Beryl. She sat down at the table and poured out his tea.

"Thanks!" Stanley took a sip. "Oh!" he said in a surprised voice. "You've forgotten the sugar."

"Oh, sorry!" But even then Beryl didn't help him. She pushed the sugar bowl across. What did this mean? As Stanley helped himself his blue eyes opened wide and seemed to tremble. He looked quickly at his sister-in-law and leaned back.

"Nothing wrong, is there?" he asked in a relaxed voice, touching his collar.

Beryl's head was bent down. She turned her plate around in her fingers.

"Nothing," said her light voice. Then she also looked up and smiled at Stanley. "Why should there be?"

"Oh! No reason at all that I know of. I thought you seemed rather—"

At that moment the door opened and the three little girls appeared, each carrying a bowl of porridge. They were all dressed the same way in blue tops and shorts. Their brown legs were bare, and each had her hair plaited and pinned up in what was called a horse's tail. Behind them came Mrs. Fairfield with the tray.

"Carefully, children," she said. But they were being extremely careful. They loved being allowed to carry things. "Have you said good morning to your father?"

"Yes, grandma." They sat down on the bench across from Stanley and Beryl.

"Good morning, Stanley!" Old Mrs. Fairfield gave him his plate.

"Morning, mother! How's the boy?"

"Wonderful! He only woke up once last night. What a perfect morning!" The old woman paused, her hand on the loaf of bread, to look out through the open door into the garden. The sea could be heard. Through the wide open window the sun came in on the yellow painted walls and bare floor. Everything on the table shone and glittered. In the middle there was an old salad bowl filled with yellow and red nasturtiums. She smiled, and a look of deep happiness shone in her eyes.

"Could you cut me a slice of that bread, mother," said Stanley. "I've only twelve and a half minutes before the coach passes. Has anyone given my shoes to the servant girl?"

"Yes, they're ready for you." Mrs. Fairfield was completely calm.

"Oh, Kezia! Why are you such a messy child!" cried Beryl sadly.

"Me, Aunt Beryl?" Kezia stared at her. What had she done now? She had only dug a channel down the middle of her porridge, filled it with milk, and was eating away the sides. But she did that every single morning, and no one had said anything until now.

"Why can't you eat your food properly like Isabel and Lottie?" How unfair grown-ups are!

"But Lottie always makes a floating island, don't you, Lottie?"

"I don't," said Isabel sharply. "I just put sugar and milk on mine and finish it. Only babies play with their food."

Stanley pushed back his chair and stood up.

"Would you get me those shoes, mother? And, Beryl, if you've finished, I wish you'd run down to the gate and stop the coach. Go to your mother, Isabel, and ask her where my hat has been put. Wait a moment—have you children been playing with my stick?"

"No, father!"

"But I put it here." Stanley began to speak angrily. "I clearly remember putting it in this corner. Now, who has had it? There's no time to waste. Be quick! The stick has to be found."

Even Alice, the servant girl, was brought into the search. "You haven't been using it to stir the kitchen fire by any chance?"

Stanley rushed into the bedroom where Linda was lying. "Most strange thing. I can't keep a single thing for myself. Now they've taken my stick!"

"Stick, dear? What stick?" Linda's vagueness at these moments couldn't be real, Stanley decided. Would nobody feel sorry for him?

"Coach! Coach, Stanley!" Beryl's voice called from the gate.

Stanley waved his hand to Linda. "No time to say good-bye!" he cried. And he meant that as a punishment for her.

He grabbed his hat, rushed out of the house, and walked quickly down the garden path. Yes, the coach was there waiting, and Beryl, leaning over the open gate, was laughing up at someone as if nothing had happened. The lack of feeling in women! The way they took it for granted that it was your job to work hard for them while they didn't even bother to make sure your walking stick wasn't lost. Kelly moved his whip across the horses.

"Good-bye, Stanley," called Beryl, sweetly and happily. It was easy enough to say good-bye! And there she stood, doing nothing, shading her eyes with her hand. The worst of it was that Stanley had to shout good-bye too, for the sake of looking normal. Then he saw her turn, give a little skip and run back to the house. She was glad to be rid of him!

Yes, she was grateful. She ran into the living room and called out "He's gone!" Linda called from her room: "Beryl! Has Stanley gone?" Old Mrs. Fairfield appeared, carrying the baby boy in his little soft coat.

"Gone?"

"Gone!"

Oh, what a relief, what a difference it made to have the man out of the house. Even their voices changed as they called to each other. They sounded warm and loving and as if they shared a secret. Beryl went to the table. "Have another cup of tea, mother. It's still hot." She wanted, somehow, to celebrate the fact that they could do what they liked now. There was no man to disturb them. The whole perfect day was theirs.

"No, thank you, child," said old Mrs. Fairfield, but the way she threw the baby boy up in the air at that moment and said "a-goos-a-goos-a-ga!" to him showed that she felt the same way. The little girls ran into the field like chickens let out of a cage.

Even Alice, the servant girl, washing the dishes in the kitchen, caught the happy mood and used the precious water in a completely careless way.

"Oh, these men!" she said, and she pushed the teapot into the bowl and held it under the water even after it had stopped making bubbles, as if it too was a man and drowning was not enough for them.
