

  As the morning went on, large groups of people appeared over the sand hills and came down to the beach to swim. It was understood that at eleven o'clock the women and children of the summer group had the sea to themselves. First the women got undressed, put on their swimming costumes and covered their heads in ugly caps that looked like small bags. Then the children were unbuttoned from their clothes. The beach was covered with small piles of clothes and shoes. The big summer hats, with stones on them to stop them blowing away, looked like enormous shells. It was strange that even the sea seemed to sound different when all those jumping, laughing figures ran into the waves. Old Mrs. Fairfield, in a light purple cotton dress and a black hat tied under her chin, gathered her small group of children and got them ready. The little Trout boys pulled their shirts over their heads, and away all five children ran, while their grandmother sat with one hand in her knitting bag, ready to pull out the ball of wool when she was sure they were safely in the water.

The solid, strong little girls were not half as brave as the delicate-looking little boys. Pip and Rags, shaking with cold, bending down, slapping the water, never hesitated. But Isabel, who could swim twelve strokes, and Kezia, who could nearly swim eight, only followed on the firm understanding that they would not be splashed. As for Lottie, she didn't follow at all. She liked to go in her own way, please. And her way was to sit down at the edge of the water, her legs straight, her knees pressed together, and to make vague movements with her arms as if she expected to be carried out to sea. But when a bigger wave than usual, an old rough one, came rolling along in her direction, she scrambled to her feet with a look of horror and ran back up the beach.

"Here, mother, keep these for me, will you?"

Two rings and a thin gold chain were dropped into Mrs. Fairfield's lap.

"Yes, dear. But aren't you going to swim here?"

"No-o," Beryl said slowly. She sounded uncertain. "I'm getting changed further along. I'm going to swim with Mrs. Harry Kember."

"Very well." But Mrs. Fairfield pressed her lips together. She did not approve of Mrs. Harry Kember. Beryl knew it.

Poor old mother, she smiled, as she walked quickly over the stones. Poor old mother! Old! Oh, what joy, what happiness it was to be young....

"You look very pleased," said Mrs. Harry Kember. She sat bent over on the stones, her arms around her knees, smoking.

"It's such a lovely day," said Beryl, smiling down at her.

"Oh my dear!" Mrs. Harry Kember's voice sounded as though she knew there was more to it than that. But then her voice always sounded as though she knew something more about you than you knew yourself. She was a tall, strange-looking woman with narrow hands and feet. Her face too was long and narrow and tired-looking. Even her fair curled hair looked burned out and dry. She was the only woman at the Bay who smoked, and she smoked all the time, keeping the cigarette between her lips while she talked, and only taking it out when the ash was so long you couldn't understand why it didn't fall. When she was not playing cards—she played cards every day of her life—she spent her time lying in the full heat of the sun. She could stand any amount of it. She never had enough. All the same, it did not seem to warm her. Dry, withered and cold, she lay stretched on the stones like a piece of driftwood washed up by the sea. The women at the Bay thought she behaved in a very improper way. Her lack of concern about her appearance, her casual speech, the way she treated men as if she was one of them, and the fact that she didn't care at all about her house and called the servant Gladys "Glad-eyes," was shocking. Standing on the veranda steps Mrs. Kember would call in her uncaring, tired voice, "I say, Glad-eyes, you might bring me a handkerchief if I've got one, will you?" And Glad-eyes, with a red bow in her hair instead of a cap, and white shoes, came running with a cheeky smile. It was completely outrageous! True, she had no children, and her husband.... Here the voices were always raised and became very serious. How could he have married her? How can he, how can he? It must have been money, of course, but even then!

Mrs. Kember's husband was at least ten years younger than she was, and so extremely handsome that he looked like a mask or a perfect picture in an American novel rather than a real man. Black hair, dark blue eyes, red lips, a slow sleepy smile, a good tennis player, a perfect dancer, and with all this, a mystery. Harry Kember was like a man walking in his sleep. Men couldn't stand him. They couldn't get a word out of him. He ignored his wife just as she ignored him. How did he earn a living? Of course there were stories, but such stories! They simply couldn't be repeated. The women he had been seen with, the places he had been seen in... but nothing was ever certain, nothing definite. Some of the women at the Bay privately thought he would commit a murder one day. Yes, even while they talked to Mrs. Kember and noticed the terrible outfit she was wearing, they saw her, lying there on the beach, but cold, bloody, and still with a cigarette in the corner of her mouth.

Mrs. Kember stood up, yawned, opened her belt buckle, and pulled at the string of her blouse. And Beryl stepped out of her skirt and took off her top, and stood in her short white underskirt and her top with ribbon bows on the shoulders.

"Good Lord," said Mrs. Harry Kember, "what a beautiful girl you are!"

"Don't!" said Beryl softly. But, taking off one stocking and then the other, she did feel like a beautiful girl.

"My dear—why not?" said Mrs. Harry Kember, stepping on her own underskirt. Really—her underwear! A pair of blue cotton shorts and a linen top that reminded you somehow of a pillow case.... "And you don't wear a corset, do you?" She touched Beryl's waist, and Beryl jumped away with a small exaggerated cry. Then "Never!" she said firmly.

"Lucky girl," sighed Mrs. Kember, opening her own corset.

Beryl turned her back and began the complicated movements of someone who is trying to take off their clothes and pull on their swimming costume all at the same time.

"Oh, my dear—don't mind me," said Mrs. Harry Kember. "Why be shy? I won't hurt you. I won't be shocked like those other foolish women." And she gave her strange laughing sound and made a face at the other women.

But Beryl was shy. She never got undressed in front of anyone. Was that silly? Mrs. Harry Kember made her feel it was silly, even something to be ashamed of. Why be shy indeed! She looked quickly at her friend standing so boldly in her torn underclothes and lighting a new cigarette, and a quick, bold, bad feeling rose in her chest. Laughing recklessly, she put on the limp, sandy-feeling swimming costume that was not quite dry and fastened the twisted buttons.

"That's better," said Mrs. Harry Kember. They began to walk down the beach together. "Really, it's a shame for you to wear clothes, my dear. Someone has to tell you this one day."

The water was quite warm. It was a wonderful clear blue, dotted with silver, but the sand at the bottom looked golden. When you kicked with your toes a little cloud of gold dust rose up. Now the waves reached up to her chest. Beryl stood with her arms stretched out, looking out to sea, and as each wave came she gave the smallest little jump, so that it seemed as if the wave was gently lifting her.

"I believe pretty girls should have a good time," said Mrs. Harry Kember. "Why not? Don't make a mistake, my dear. Enjoy yourself." And suddenly she turned upside down in the water, disappeared, and swam away quickly, quickly, like a rat. Then she turned over and began swimming back. She was going to say something more. Beryl felt that this cold woman was poisoning her somehow, but she wanted very much to hear. But oh, how strange, how horrible! As Mrs. Harry Kember came up close she looked, in her black swimming cap, with her tired face lifted above the water, just her chin touching the surface, like a frightening copy of her husband.
