

  In a long garden chair, under a manuka tree that grew in the middle of the front garden, Linda Burnell spent the morning dreaming. She did nothing. She looked up at the dark, thick, dry leaves of the manuka tree, at the bits of blue sky between them, and now and again a tiny yellowish flower dropped on to her. Pretty—yes, if you held one of those flowers in the palm of your hand and looked at it closely, it was a beautifully small thing. Each pale yellow petal shone as if it had been made carefully by a loving hand. The tiny centre gave it the shape of a bell. And when you turned it over, the outside was a deep bronze color. But as soon as they flowered, they fell and were scattered. You brushed them off your dress as you talked. The tiny things got caught in your hair. So why flower at all? Who goes to the trouble—or takes the pleasure—of making all these things that are wasted, wasted.... It was strange and disturbing.

On the grass beside her, lying between two pillows, was the baby boy. He was sound asleep with his head turned away from his mother. His fine dark hair looked more like a shadow than real hair, but his ear was a bright, deep pink. Linda put her hands above her head and crossed her feet. It was very pleasant to know that all these houses were empty, that everyone was down on the beach, out of sight, out of hearing. She had the garden to herself. She was alone.

Bright white the picotee flowers shone. The golden-eyed marigold glittered. The nasturtiums covered the veranda posts in green and gold. If only one had time to look at these flowers long enough, time to get past the feeling of newness and strangeness, time to really know them! But as soon as one stopped to open the petals, to look at the underside of a leaf, along came Life and one was swept away. And, lying in her garden chair, Linda felt so light. She felt like a leaf. Along came Life like a wind and she was grabbed and shaken. She had to go. Oh dear, would it always be like this? Was there no escape?

... Now she sat on the veranda of their home in Tasmania, leaning against her father's knee. And he promised, "As soon as you and I are old enough, Linny, we'll go off somewhere, we'll escape. Two friends together. I'd like to sail up a river in China." Linda saw that river, very wide, covered with small rafts and boats. She saw the yellow hats of the boatmen and heard their high, thin voices as they called....

"Yes, papa."

But just then a very large young man with bright red hair walked slowly past their house, and slowly, almost seriously, took off his hat. Linda's father pulled her ear playfully, in the way he had.

"Linny's boyfriend," he whispered.

"Oh, papa, imagine being married to Stanley Burnell!"

Well, she was married to him. And what was more, she loved him. Not the Stanley that everyone saw, not the everyday one, but a shy, sensitive, innocent Stanley who knelt down every night to say his prayers and who wanted to be good. Stanley was straightforward. If he believed in people—as he believed in her, for example—it was with his whole heart. He could not be disloyal. He could not tell a lie. And how terribly he suffered if he thought anyone—she—was not being completely honest and sincere with him! "This is too complicated for me!" He threw out the words, but his open, trembling, lost look was like the look of a trapped animal.

But the problem was—here Linda felt almost like laughing, though it was certainly not funny—she saw her Stanley so rarely. There were glimpses, moments, brief times of peace, but all the rest of the time it was like living in a house that couldn't stop catching fire, on a ship that crashed every day. And it was always Stanley who was in the middle of the danger. All her time was spent rescuing him, and helping him recover, and calming him down, and listening to his story. And what time she had left was spent in fear of having more children.

Linda frowned. She sat up quickly in her garden chair and held her ankles. Yes, that was her real complaint against life. That was what she could not understand. That was the question she asked and asked, and listened for an answer that never came. It was all very well to say it was the normal experience of women to have children. It wasn't true. She, for one, could prove that wrong. She was broken, made weak, her courage was gone, because of having children. And what made it doubly hard to bear was that she did not love her children. It was pointless pretending otherwise. Even if she had had the strength she would never have wanted to nurse and play with the little girls. No, it was as though a cold breath had chilled her completely on each of those terrible times when she had given birth. She had no warmth left to give them. As for the boy—well, thank God, mother had taken him. He was mother's, or Beryl's, or anyone's who wanted him. She had hardly held him in her arms. She was so unconcerned about him that as he lay there... Linda glanced down.

The boy had turned over. He lay facing her, and he was no longer asleep. His dark blue baby eyes were open. He looked as though he was secretly watching his mother. And suddenly his face creased into a smile. It broke into a wide, toothless grin, a perfect beam of happiness.

"I'm here!" that happy smile seemed to say. "Why don't you like me?"

There was something so sweet and unexpected about that smile that Linda smiled herself. But she stopped herself and said to the boy coldly, "I don't like babies."

"Don't like babies?" The boy couldn't believe her. "Don't like me?" He waved his arms about at his mother.

Linda slipped off her chair on to the grass.

"Why do you keep smiling?" she said seriously. "If you knew what I was thinking about, you wouldn't."

But he only narrowed his eyes with a knowing look, and rolled his head on the pillow. He didn't believe a word she said.

"We know all about that!" smiled the boy.

Linda was so surprised by the confidence of this tiny creature.... But no, be honest. That was not what she felt. It was something very different, something so new, so.... Tears came to her eyes. She breathed in a small whisper to the boy, "Hello, my funny little one!"

But by now the boy had forgotten his mother. He was serious again. Something pink, something soft was moving in front of him. He reached out for it and it immediately disappeared. But when he lay back, another one, like the first, appeared. This time he was determined to catch it. He made a big effort and rolled right over.
