

  The tide was out. The beach was empty. The warm sea moved slowly and quietly. The sun beat down, hot and strong, on the fine sand, warming the grey and blue and black and white-marked pebbles. It dried up the small drop of water that lay in the hollow of the curved shells. It bleached the pink flowers that grew through and through the sand hills. Nothing seemed to move except the small sand insects. Pit-pit-pit! They were never still.

Over there on the seaweed-covered rocks that looked at low tide like shaggy animals coming down to the water to drink, the sunlight seemed to spin like a silver coin dropped into each of the small rock pools. They danced and shimmered, and tiny ripples washed the rocky shores. Looking down into each pool was like looking at a lake with pink and blue houses on the shores. And behind those houses—the deep valleys, the mountain passes, the dangerous paths that led to the water's edge. Underneath, the underwater plants moved gently—pink thread-like plants, velvet sea creatures, and orange spotted seaweed. Now a stone on the bottom moved and rocked, and there was a glimpse of a black feeler. Now a thread-like creature drifted past and disappeared. Something was happening to the pink, waving plants. They were changing to a cold moonlight blue. And now there was the faintest little "plop." Who made that sound? What was happening down there? And how strong, how damp the seaweed smelt in the hot sun....

The green window covers were pulled down in the houses of the summer group. Over the verandas, lying on the grass, thrown over the fences, there were tired-looking swimming costumes and rough striped towels. Each back window seemed to have a pair of beach shoes on the ledge and some pieces of rock or a bucket or a collection of shells. The bush trembled in the heat haze. The sandy road was empty except for the Trouts' dog Snooker, who lay stretched out in the very middle of it. His one blue eye was turned up, his legs stuck out stiffly, and he gave an occasional desperate-sounding puff, as if to say he had decided to put an end to it all and was only waiting for some kind vehicle to come along.

"What are you looking at, grandma? Why do you keep stopping and sort of staring at the wall?"

Kezia and her grandmother were resting together in the afternoon. The little girl, wearing only her short pants and her undershirt, her arms and legs bare, lay on one of the fat pillows of her grandma's bed, and the old woman, in a white ruffled dressing gown, sat in a rocking chair at the window, with a long piece of pink knitting in her lap. This room that they shared, like the other rooms of the house, had light painted wood walls and a bare floor. The furniture was very simple and plain. The dressing table, for example, was a packing box covered with a flowered cloth, and the mirror above it was very odd. It was as though a small piece of forked lightning was trapped inside it. On the table there stood a jar of sea pinks, pressed so tightly together they looked more like a velvet pincushion. There was also a special shell which Kezia had given her grandma to put pins in, and another even more special one which she had thought would make a nice place for a watch to sit in.

"Tell me, grandma," said Kezia.

The old woman sighed, wrapped the wool twice around her thumb, and pushed the bone needle through. She was starting a new row.

"I was thinking of your Uncle William, darling," she said quietly.

"My Australian Uncle William?" said Kezia. She had another uncle too.

"Yes, of course."

"The one I never saw?"

"That was the one."

"Well, what happened to him?" Kezia knew perfectly well, but she wanted to be told again.

"He went to the mines, and he got sunstroke there and died," said old Mrs. Fairfield.

Kezia blinked and thought about the picture again.... A small man fallen over like a toy soldier beside a big black hole.

"Does it make you sad to think about him, grandma?" She hated her grandma to be sad.

It was the old woman's turn to think. Did it make her sad? To look back, back. To stare down through the years, as Kezia had seen her doing. To watch them the way a woman does, long after they were out of sight. Did it make her sad? No, life was like that.

"No, Kezia."

"But why?" asked Kezia. She lifted one bare arm and began to draw shapes in the air. "Why did Uncle William have to die? He wasn't old."

Mrs. Fairfield began counting the stitches in threes. "It just happened," she said in a focused voice.

"Does everybody have to die?" asked Kezia.

"Everybody!"

"Me?" Kezia sounded very shocked and disbelieving.

"One day, my darling."

"But, grandma." Kezia moved her left leg and wiggled her toes. They felt sandy. "What if I just won't?"

The old woman sighed again and pulled a long thread from the ball of wool.

"We're not asked, Kezia," she said sadly. "It happens to all of us sooner or later."

Kezia lay still thinking about this. She didn't want to die. It meant she would have to leave here, leave everywhere, forever, leave—leave her grandma. She rolled over quickly.

"Grandma," she said in a startled voice.

"What, my pet!"

"You're not to die." Kezia was very firm.

"Ah, Kezia"—her grandma looked up and smiled and shook her head—"let's not talk about it."

"But you're not to. You couldn't leave me. You couldn't not be there." This was terrible. "Promise me you won't ever do it, grandma," begged Kezia.

The old woman went on knitting.

"Promise me! Say never!"

But still her grandma was silent.

Kezia rolled off the bed. She couldn't bear it any longer, and lightly she jumped on to her grandma's knees, put her hands around the old woman's neck and began kissing her, under the chin, behind the ear, and blowing on her neck.

"Say never... say never... say never—" She breathed between the kisses. And then she began, very softly and gently, to tickle her grandma.

"Kezia!" The old woman dropped her knitting. She swung back in the rocking chair. She began to tickle Kezia. "Say never, say never, say never," laughed Kezia, while they lay there laughing in each other's arms. "Come, that's enough, my little squirrel! That's enough, my wild pony!" said old Mrs. Fairfield, straightening her hat. "Pick up my knitting."

Both of them had forgotten what the "never" was about.
