

  A strange group gathered in the Burnells' washroom after tea. Around the table there sat a bull, a rooster, a donkey that kept forgetting it was a donkey, a sheep and a bee. The washroom was the perfect place for such a meeting because they could make as much noise as they liked and nobody ever interrupted. It was a small tin shed standing apart from the house. Against the wall there was a deep trough and in the corner a large wash pot with a basket of clothes pegs on top of it. The small window, covered over with cobwebs, had a piece of candle and a mousetrap on the dusty ledge. There were washing lines crossing each other overhead, and hanging from a peg on the wall, a very big, enormous, rusty horseshoe. The table was in the middle with a bench on either side.

"You can't be a bee, Kezia. A bee's not an animal. It's an insect."

"Oh, but I really, really want to be a bee," cried Kezia.... A tiny bee, all yellow and fuzzy, with striped legs. She pulled her legs up under her and leaned over the table. She felt that she was a bee.

"An insect must be an animal," she said firmly. "It makes a noise. It's not like a fish."

"I'm a bull, I'm a bull!" cried Pip. And he made such an enormous bellowing sound—how did he make that noise?—that Lottie looked quite frightened.

"I'll be a sheep," said little Rags. "A whole lot of sheep went past this morning."

"How do you know?"

"Dad heard them. Baa!" He sounded like the little lamb that trots behind and seems to be waiting to be picked up and carried.

"Cock-a-doodle-do!" Isabel called out. With her red cheeks and bright eyes she looked like a rooster.

"What will I be?" Lottie asked everyone, and she sat there smiling, waiting for them to decide for her. It had to be an easy animal.

"Be a donkey, Lottie." It was Kezia's suggestion. "Hee-haw! You can't forget that."

"Hee-haw!" said Lottie seriously. "When do I have to say it?"

"I'll explain, I'll explain," said the bull. He was the one with the cards. He waved them around his head. "Everyone be quiet! Everyone listen!" And he waited for them. "Look here, Lottie." He turned up a card. "It's got two spots on it—see? Now, if you put that card in the middle and somebody else has one with two spots as well, you say 'Hee-haw,' and the card's yours."

"Mine?" Lottie's eyes went round. "To keep?"

"No, silly. Just for the game, understand? Just while we're playing." The bull was very cross with her.

"Oh, Lottie, you are a little silly," said the proud rooster.

Lottie looked at both of them. Then she hung her head. Her lip trembled. "I don't want to play," she whispered. The others exchanged glances like people sharing a secret. They all knew what that meant. She would go away and be found somewhere standing with her apron thrown over her head, in a corner, or against a wall, or even behind a chair.

"Yes, you do, Lottie. It's quite easy," said Kezia.

And Isabel, feeling sorry, said exactly like a grown-up, "Watch me, Lottie, and you'll soon learn."

"Cheer up, Lot," said Pip. "Look, I know what I'll do. I'll give you the first one. It's really mine, but I'll give it to you. Here you are." And he slammed the card down in front of Lottie.

Lottie cheered up at that. But now she had another problem. "I haven't got a handkerchief," she said. "I really need one too."

"Here, Lottie, you can use mine." Rags dipped into his sailor top and brought out a very wet-looking one, tied in a knot. "Be very careful," he warned her. "Only use that corner. Don't untie it. I've got a little starfish inside that I'm going to try and tame."

"Oh, come on, you girls," said the bull. "And remember—you're not to look at your cards. You've got to keep your hands under the table until I say 'Go.'"

The cards were dealt quickly around the table. They tried with all their might to look, but Pip was too quick for them. It was very exciting, sitting there in the washroom. It was all they could do not to burst into a little chorus of animal sounds before Pip had finished dealing.

"Now, Lottie, you begin."

Timidly Lottie stretched out a hand, took the top card from her pile, looked at it carefully—it was clear she was counting the spots—and put it down.

"No, Lottie, you can't do that. You mustn't look first. You must turn it the other way over."

"But then everybody will see it at the same time as me," said Lottie.

The game went on. Moo-oo-er! The bull was terrible. He leaned over the table and seemed to swallow the cards up.

Bss-ss! said the bee.

Cock-a-doodle-do! Isabel stood up in her excitement and moved her elbows like wings.

Baa! Little Rags put down the King of Diamonds and Lottie put down the one they called the King of Spain. She had almost no cards left.

"Why don't you call out, Lottie?"

"I've forgotten what I am," said the donkey sadly.

"Well, change! Be a dog instead! Bow-wow!"

"Oh yes. That's much easier." Lottie smiled again. But when she and Kezia both put down a matching card, Kezia waited on purpose. The others made signs to Lottie and pointed. Lottie went very red. She looked confused, and at last she said, "Hee-haw! Ke-zia."

"Shh! Wait a minute!" They were right in the middle of the game when the bull stopped them, holding up his hand. "What's that? What's that noise?"

"What noise? What do you mean?" asked the rooster.

"Shh! Be quiet! Listen!" They were completely still. "I thought I heard a—a sort of knocking," said the bull.

"What was it like?" asked the sheep faintly.

No answer.

The bee shivered. "Why did we shut the door?" she said softly. Oh, why, why had they shut the door?

While they had been playing, the day had faded. The beautiful sunset had blazed and died. And now the quick darkness came rushing over the sea, over the sand hills, up across the field. You were frightened to look in the corners of the washroom, and yet you had to look with all your might. And somewhere, far away, grandma was lighting a lamp. The window covers were being pulled down. The kitchen fire shone in the metal tins on the shelf above the fireplace.

"It would be awful now," said the bull, "if a spider were to fall from the ceiling on to the table, wouldn't it?"

"Spiders don't fall from ceilings."

"Yes, they do. Our Min told us she'd seen a spider as big as a saucer, with long hairs on it like a gooseberry."

Quickly all the little heads were pulled up. All the little bodies drew together, pressed close together.

"Why doesn't somebody come and call us?" cried the rooster.

Oh, those grown-ups, laughing and comfortable, sitting in the lamplight, drinking from their cups! They had forgotten about them. No, not really forgotten. That was what their smiling meant. They had decided to leave them there all by themselves.

Suddenly Lottie gave such a piercing scream that all of them jumped off the benches and all of them screamed too. "A face—a face looking!" screamed Lottie.

It was true, it was real. Pressed against the window was a pale face, black eyes, a black beard.

"Grandma! Mother! Somebody!"

But they had not reached the door, falling over each other, before it opened for Uncle Jonathan. He had come to take the little boys home.
