
  The next morning, poor, tired, hungry Passepartout said to himself that he had to find something to eat no matter what, and the sooner the better. He could sell his watch, but he would have starved first. Now or never he would use the strong, if not very musical, voice that nature had given him. He knew several French and English songs and decided to try them on the Japanese, who must love music, since they were always beating their cymbals, drums, and tambourines, and could not fail to appreciate European talent.

It was perhaps a little too early in the morning to give a concert, and an audience woken too soon from sleep might not pay their entertainer with coins. Passepartout therefore decided to wait a few hours. As he was walking, it occurred to him that he looked too well dressed for a wandering musician. He thought of exchanging his clothes for something more suitable to his plan, by which he might also get a little money to deal with his immediate hunger. The decision made, he went to carry it out.

After a long search, Passepartout found a local second-hand clothes dealer, to whom he offered an exchange. The man liked the European clothes, and soon Passepartout came out of his shop dressed in an old Japanese coat and a kind of one-sided hat, worn with age. A few small coins also jingled in his pocket.

"Good!" he thought. "I'll pretend I'm at a costume party!"

His first action, after being dressed this way, was to enter a simple-looking tea house and, over half a bird and some rice, to eat a proper breakfast like a man who had no idea where dinner would come from.

"Now," he thought, when he had eaten well, "I must keep my head. I can't sell this costume again for an even more Japanese one. I must think about how to leave this Land of the Sun — which I will not remember with great pleasure — as quickly as possible."

He thought of going to see the steamers that were about to leave for America. He would offer himself as a cook or servant, in exchange for his passage and meals. Once in San Francisco, he would find some way to continue. The difficulty was how to cross the four thousand seven hundred miles of the Pacific between Japan and the New World.

Passepartout was not someone who let an idea go to waste, and he walked towards the docks. But as he got closer, his plan — which had at first seemed so simple — began to feel more and more difficult. Why would an American steamer need a cook or servant, and what trust would they put in him, dressed as he was? What references could he give?

As he was thinking about this, his eyes fell on a huge sign that a kind of clown was carrying through the streets. The sign, written in English, read as follows:

ACROBATIC JAPANESE TROUPE,
HONOURABLE WILLIAM BATULCAR, OWNER,
LAST PERFORMANCES,
BEFORE THEIR DEPARTURE TO THE UNITED STATES,
OF THE
LONG NOSES! LONG NOSES!
UNDER THE DIRECT CARE OF THE GOD TINGOU!
GREAT ATTRACTION!

"The United States!" said Passepartout. "That's exactly what I need!"

He followed the clown and soon found himself once more in the Japanese area. A quarter of an hour later he stopped in front of a large building, decorated with several groups of flags. The outer walls were painted in bright colours without any sense of depth, showing a group of performers.

This was Honourable William Batulcar's place. That man was a kind of show organiser, in charge of a group of entertainers, jugglers, clowns, acrobats, balancers, and gymnasts. According to the sign, he was giving his last performances before leaving Japan for the United States.

Passepartout went in and asked for Mr. Batulcar, who appeared immediately.

"What do you want?" he said to Passepartout, taking him at first for a local.

"Would you like a servant, sir?" asked Passepartout.

"A servant!" cried Mr. Batulcar, stroking the thick grey beard hanging from his chin. "I already have two who are obedient and faithful, have never left me, and serve me for their food — and here they are," he added, holding out his two strong arms, with veins as thick as the strings of a large instrument.

"So I can't be useful to you?"

"No."

"What a shame! I would so like to cross the Pacific with you!"

"Ah!" said Honourable Mr. Batulcar. "You are no more Japanese than I am a monkey! Who are you, dressed up like that?"

"A man dresses as he can."

"True. You are French, aren't you?"

"Yes, a Parisian from Paris."

"Then you must know how to make funny faces?"

"Well," replied Passepartout, a little annoyed that his nationality should lead to this question, "we French know how to make funny faces, it is true — but not any better than the Americans."

"Fair enough. Well, if I can't take you as a servant, I can as a clown. You see, my friend, in France they show foreign clowns, and in foreign countries they show French clowns."

"Ah!"

"You are quite strong, are you?"

"Especially after a good meal."

"And can you sing?"

"Yes," replied Passepartout, who had in the past been known to sing in the streets.

"But can you sing while standing on your head, with a spinning top on your left foot, and a sword balanced on your right?"

"Well, I think so," replied Passepartout, remembering the exercises of his younger years.

"Well, that's enough," said Honourable William Batulcar.

The agreement was made right then and there.

Passepartout had at last found something to do. He was hired to perform with the famous Japanese troupe. It was not a very respected position, but within a week he would be on his way to San Francisco.

The performance, announced so noisily by Honourable Mr. Batulcar, was to begin at three o'clock, and soon the loud instruments of a Japanese orchestra were heard at the door. Passepartout, though he had not been able to study or practise a part, was chosen to help with his strong shoulders in the great show called the "human pyramid," performed by the Long Noses of the god Tingou. This "great attraction" was to close the performance.

Before three o'clock the large building was filled by the audience — Europeans and locals, Chinese and Japanese, men, women, and children — who hurried onto the narrow seats and into the boxes opposite the stage. The musicians took their places inside and were playing loudly on their gongs, drums, flutes, tambourines, and enormous drums.

The performance was much like all acrobatic shows. But it must be said that the Japanese are the best balancing artists in the world.

One performer, using a fan and some pieces of paper, performed the graceful trick of butterflies and flowers. Another drew in the air, using the sweet-smelling smoke from his pipe, a series of blue words that made a friendly greeting to the audience. A third juggled with lit candles, putting them out one by one as they passed his lips and lighting them again without stopping his juggling for a moment. Another showed amazing things with a spinning top. In his hands the spinning tops seemed to have a life of their own in their endless turning. They ran over the edges of pipes, along the edges of swords, over wires and even hairs stretched across the stage. They spun on the edges of large glasses, crossed bamboo ladders, went into every corner, and made strange musical sounds by mixing their different pitches. The jugglers threw them in the air, tossed them like shuttlecocks with wooden bats, and still they kept spinning. They put them in their pockets and took them out still turning as before.

There is no need to describe the amazing performances of the acrobats and gymnasts. The tricks done on ladders, poles, balls, and barrels were carried out with wonderful accuracy.

But the main attraction was the show of the Long Noses, something not yet seen in Europe.

The Long Noses form a special group, directly under the care of the god Tingou. Dressed in the style of the Middle Ages, they wore a splendid pair of wings on their shoulders. But what especially marked them were the long noses attached to their faces, and what they did with them. These noses were made of bamboo and were five, six, or even ten feet long — some straight, some curved, some decorated with ribbons, and some with fake bumps on them. It was on these additions, attached tightly to their real noses, that they performed their gymnastics. A dozen of these followers of Tingou lay flat on their backs, while others, dressed like lightning rods, came and played on their noses, jumping from one to another and performing the most skillful jumps and somersaults.

As a final scene, a "human pyramid" had been announced, in which fifty Long Noses were to represent the Car of Juggernaut. But instead of forming a pyramid by climbing on each other's shoulders, the performers were to group themselves on top of the noses. It happened that the performer who had been forming the base of the Car had left the troupe. Since this part only needed strength and skill, Passepartout had been chosen to take his place.

The poor man really felt sad when — a sad memory from his youth! — he put on his costume, decorated with colourful wings, and attached to his natural nose a false nose six feet long. But he cheered himself up when he thought that this nose was earning him food.

He went on stage and took his place beside the others who were to form the base of the Car of Juggernaut. They all lay on the floor, their noses pointing to the ceiling. A second group of performers placed themselves on these long nose attachments, then a third on top of them, then a fourth, until a human tower reaching up to the very top of the theatre soon rose up on top of the noses. This brought loud cheering, and in the middle of it all the orchestra was just starting a very loud piece of music, when the pyramid shook, the balance was lost, one of the lower noses disappeared from the pyramid, and the human tower fell apart like a house of cards!

It was Passepartout's fault. He had left his position, jumped over the stage lights without using his wings, climbed up to the right-hand upper area, and fell at the feet of one of the audience members, crying, "Ah, my master! My master!"

"You here?"

"Myself."

"Very well! Then let us go to the steamer, young man!"

Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and Passepartout passed through the entrance area of the theatre to the outside, where they met Honourable Mr. Batulcar, who was furious. He demanded payment for the "damage" done to the pyramid. Phileas Fogg calmed him down by giving him a handful of notes.

At half past six — the exact time of departure — Mr. Fogg and Aouda, followed by Passepartout, who in his hurry had kept his wings and his six-foot nose, stepped onto the American steamer.
