
  It was seven in the morning when Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and Passepartout stepped onto the American continent — if this name can be given to the floating dock where they landed. These docks, rising and falling with the tide, made loading and unloading ships easier. Next to them were all kinds of sailing ships, steamers of all nationalities, and multi-deck steamboats that travel on the Sacramento River and its branches. There were also large piles of goods from a trade that reached Mexico, Chile, Peru, Brazil, Europe, Asia, and all the Pacific islands.

Passepartout, excited to finally reach the American continent, thought he would show his joy by doing an impressive jump. But he landed on some old, weak planks and fell through them. Put in an awkward position by the way he had "arrived" in the New World, he let out a loud cry, which frightened the many seabirds that are always sitting on these moving docks, and they flew away noisily.

Mr. Fogg, when he reached shore, went to find out what time the first train left for New York, and learned it was at six o'clock in the evening. He therefore had a full day to spend in the California city. He ordered a carriage for three dollars, and he and Aouda got in, while Passepartout sat next to the driver. They set off for the International Hotel.

From his higher position Passepartout watched with great curiosity the wide streets, the low and evenly built houses, the churches in a mixed style, the large docks, the fine wooden and brick warehouses, the many carriages, buses, and horse-drawn trams, and on the pavements not only Americans and Europeans, but also Chinese and Native Americans. Passepartout was surprised by everything he saw. San Francisco was no longer the legendary city of 1849 — a city of criminals, killers, and arsonists, who had arrived in crowds to steal. It was no longer a paradise for outlaws, where people gambled with gold dust, a gun in one hand and a knife in the other. It was now a great commercial city.

The tall tower of its City Hall looked out over the whole view of streets and avenues which crossed each other at right angles, with pleasant green squares in the middle, and beyond them the Chinese area, which looked as if it had been imported from China in a toy box. Cowboy hats and red shirts and feathered Native Americans were rarely seen, but there were silk hats and black coats everywhere, worn by a crowd of energetic, well-dressed-looking men. Some of the streets — especially Montgomery Street, which is to San Francisco what Regent Street is to London, the Boulevard des Italiens to Paris, and Broadway to New York — were lined with fine and spacious shops, which showed in their windows products from the entire world.

When Passepartout arrived at the International Hotel, it did not feel to him as if he had left England at all.

The ground floor of the hotel had a large bar, a kind of restaurant open to all passers-by, where people could eat dried beef, oyster soup, biscuits, and cheese without paying. Payment was only made for the beer, porter, or wine that was drunk. This seemed very American to Passepartout. The hotel dining rooms were comfortable, and Mr. Fogg and Aouda, sitting at a table, were served generously on small plates by very dark-skinned waiters.

After breakfast, Mr. Fogg, accompanied by Aouda, went to the English consulate to get his passport stamped. As he was leaving, he met Passepartout, who asked him whether it would not be good, before taking the train, to buy some rifles and revolvers. He had been hearing stories of attacks on trains by Sioux and Pawnee warriors. Mr. Fogg thought it was an unnecessary precaution, but told him to do as he thought best, and went on to the consulate.

He had not walked two hundred steps, however, when, "by the greatest chance in the world," he met Fix. The detective seemed completely surprised. What! Had Mr. Fogg and himself crossed the Pacific together without meeting on the steamer? At least Fix felt honoured to see again the gentleman to whom he owed so much, and, since his business was calling him back to Europe, he would be very happy to continue the journey in such pleasant company.

Mr. Fogg replied that the honour would be his. The detective — who was determined not to lose sight of him — asked permission to walk with them around San Francisco, which Mr. Fogg gladly gave.

They soon found themselves on Montgomery Street, where a large crowd had gathered. The pavements, road, tram lines, shop entrances, the windows of houses, and even the rooftops were full of people. Men walked around carrying large signs, and flags and banners waved in the wind, while loud shouts were heard from everywhere.

"Hurrah for Camerfield!"
"Hurrah for Mandiboy!"

It was a political meeting — or so Fix guessed. He said to Mr. Fogg, "Perhaps we should not mix with the crowd. There may be some danger."

"Yes," replied Mr. Fogg, "and punches, even political ones, are still punches."

Fix smiled at this comment. In order to see without being pushed around, the group took up a position at the top of a set of steps at the upper end of Montgomery Street. Opposite them, on the other side of the street, between a coal yard and a petroleum warehouse, a large platform had been built in the open air, towards which the crowd seemed to be moving.

What was this meeting for? What was the reason for this excited gathering? Phileas Fogg could not guess. Was it to choose some important official — a governor or a member of Congress? It seemed possible, so worked up was the crowd in front of them.

Just then there was an unusual movement in the large mass of people. All the hands went up in the air. Some, tightly closed, seemed to disappear suddenly among the shouts — an energetic way, no doubt, of casting a vote. The crowd moved back. The banners and flags wavered, disappeared for a moment, then reappeared in pieces. The movements of the human crowd reached the steps, while all the heads moved like a sea disturbed by a storm. Many black hats disappeared, and the greater part of the crowd seemed to have become shorter.

"It is clearly a meeting," said Fix, "and its subject must be an exciting one. I would not be surprised if it were about the Alabama question, even though that matter is settled."

"Perhaps," replied Mr. Fogg simply.

"At least, there are two opposing sides — the Honourable Mr. Camerfield and the Honourable Mr. Mandiboy."

Aouda, holding Mr. Fogg's arm, watched the noisy scene with surprise, while Fix asked a man near him what was causing it all. Before the man could answer, a fresh burst of activity happened. Shouts and excited cries were heard. The sticks holding the banners began to be used as weapons, and punches were being thrown in every direction. Kicks were exchanged from the tops of carriages and buses blocked in the crowd. Shoes went flying through the air, and Mr. Fogg thought he even heard the sound of guns mixed into the noise. The fighting approached the stairs and spread onto the lower steps. One side had clearly been pushed back, but the people just watching could not tell whether it was the Mandiboy or the Camerfield group that had won.

"It would be wise for us to leave," said Fix, who was worried that Mr. Fogg should not be hurt, at least not before they got back to London. "If there is any question about England in all this, and we were recognised, I fear things would go badly for us."

"An English subject—" began Mr. Fogg.

He did not finish his sentence, for a terrible noise now rose on the open area behind the steps where they stood, and there were wild shouts of "Hurrah for Mandiboy! Hip, hip, hurrah!"

It was a group of voters coming to help their allies, and attacking the Camerfield group from the side. Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and Fix found themselves trapped between two sides. It was too late to escape. The wave of men, armed with weighted sticks, was impossible to resist. Phileas Fogg and Fix were roughly pushed around in their efforts to protect their companion. Mr. Fogg, as cool as ever, tried to defend himself with what nature provides at the end of every Englishman's arms, but without success. A big, strong man with a red beard, a red face, and broad shoulders — who seemed to be the leader of the group — raised his closed fist to strike Mr. Fogg with a crushing blow, when Fix jumped in front and received it in his place. A large bruise immediately appeared under the detective's silk hat, which was completely smashed.

"Yankee!" exclaimed Mr. Fogg, giving the rough man a look of complete contempt.

"Englishman!" replied the other. "We will meet again!"

"Whenever you wish."

"What is your name?"

"Phileas Fogg. And yours?"

"Colonel Stamp Proctor."

The crowd now swept past, knocking down Fix, who quickly got to his feet again, though his clothes were torn. Luckily, he was not seriously hurt. His travelling coat had been torn in two unequal pieces, and his trousers looked like those worn by certain Native Americans — not very well fitting. Aouda had escaped unhurt, and Fix alone showed marks of the fight in a black and blue bruise.

"Thank you," said Mr. Fogg to the detective, as soon as they were out of the crowd.

"No thanks needed," replied Fix. "But let us go."

"Where?"

"To a tailor's shop."

Such a visit was, indeed, necessary. The clothing of both Mr. Fogg and Fix was in pieces, as if they had themselves been directly involved in the fight between the Camerfield and Mandiboy supporters. An hour later, they were again suitably dressed, and returned with Aouda to the International Hotel.

Passepartout was waiting for his master, armed with half a dozen six-barrelled revolvers. When he saw Fix, he looked displeased. But Aouda, in a few words, told him about their adventure, and his face became calm again. Fix was clearly no longer an enemy, but a partner. He was faithfully keeping his word.

After dinner, the coach that was to carry the passengers and their luggage to the station came to the door. As he was getting in, Mr. Fogg said to Fix, "You have not seen this Colonel Proctor again?"

"No."

"I will come back to America to find him," said Phileas Fogg calmly. "It would not be right for an Englishman to allow himself to be treated in that way without responding."

The detective smiled but did not reply. It was clear that Mr. Fogg was one of those Englishmen who, while they do not accept duelling at home, will fight abroad when their honour has been insulted.

At a quarter to six the travellers reached the station and found the train ready to leave. As he was about to board, Mr. Fogg called a porter and said to him: "My friend, was there not some trouble today in San Francisco?"

"It was a political meeting, sir," replied the porter.

"But I thought there was a lot of disturbance in the streets."

"It was only a meeting for an election."

"The election of a general-in-chief, no doubt?" asked Mr. Fogg.

"No, sir. Of a justice of the peace."

Phileas Fogg got into the train, which started off at full speed.
