
  What happened when the pilot-boat came in sight of Shanghai will be easy to imagine. The signals made by the "Tankadere" had been seen by the captain of the Yokohama steamer, who, noticing the flag at half-mast, had directed his ship towards the small boat. Phileas Fogg, after paying the agreed amount to John Bunsby and rewarding that good man with the extra sum of five hundred and fifty pounds, went onto the steamer with Aouda and Fix. They started at once for Nagasaki and Yokohama.

They arrived at their destination on the morning of the 14th of November. Phileas Fogg did not waste any time going on board the "Carnatic," where he learned — to Aouda's great joy, and perhaps to his own, though he showed no feeling — that Passepartout, a Frenchman, had actually arrived on it the day before.

The San Francisco steamer was announced to leave that same evening, and it was necessary to find Passepartout, if possible, without delay. Mr. Fogg asked for help from the French and English consuls without success. After walking through the streets for a long time, he began to lose hope of finding his missing servant. By chance, or perhaps by some kind of feeling, he was finally led to Honourable Mr. Batulcar's theatre. He would certainly not have recognised Passepartout in the unusual performer's costume. But Passepartout, lying on his back, saw his master in the upper area. He could not help reacting with a start, which changed the position of his nose and brought the "pyramid" crashing onto the stage.

All this Passepartout learned from Aouda, who told him what had happened during the voyage from Hong Kong to Shanghai on the "Tankadere," in the company of one Mr. Fix.

Passepartout did not show any reaction when he heard this name. He felt that the time had not yet come to tell his master what had happened between the detective and himself. In telling the story of his absence, he simply said he had drunk too much while smoking opium at a bar in Hong Kong.

Mr. Fogg heard this story coldly, without a word. He then gave his man the money needed to buy clothes more suitable for his position. Within an hour the Frenchman had removed his fake nose, left behind his wings, and had nothing left on him to remind anyone of the follower of the god Tingou.

The steamer about to leave Yokohama for San Francisco belonged to the Pacific Mail Steamship Company and was named the "General Grant." She was a large paddle-wheel steamer of two thousand five hundred tons, well-equipped and very fast. The large walking-beam moved up and down above the deck. At one end a piston rod worked up and down. At the other end was a connecting rod which changed the straight movement into a circular one, directly connected to the shaft of the paddles. The "General Grant" had three masts, giving a large area for sails, which greatly helped the steam engine. By travelling at twelve miles per hour, she would cross the ocean in twenty-one days. Phileas Fogg was therefore right to hope that he would reach San Francisco by the 2nd of December, New York by the 11th, and London on the 20th — arriving several hours before the final date of the 21st of December.

The ship had a full load of passengers — English, many Americans, a large number of workers going to California, and several officers from the East Indies who were spending their holiday travelling around the world. Nothing important happened on the voyage. The steamer, held up by its large paddles, rocked very little, and the "Pacific" almost deserved its name. Mr. Fogg was as calm and quiet as ever. His young companion felt herself becoming more and more attached to him by more than just gratitude. His quiet but generous character impressed her more than she expected. Almost without knowing it, she gave in to feelings that seemed to have no effect at all on her protector. Aouda took a deep interest in his plans, and felt impatient at any event that seemed likely to slow his journey.

She often talked with Passepartout, who could clearly see the state of the lady's heart. Being the most loyal of servants, he never stopped praising Phileas Fogg's honesty, generosity, and care for others. He tried to calm Aouda's worries about whether the journey would end successfully. He told her that the hardest part was behind them, that they were now beyond the unusual countries of Japan and China, and were clearly on their way to more familiar places. A railway from San Francisco to New York, and a ship from New York to Liverpool, would surely bring them to the end of this seemingly impossible journey around the world within the agreed time.

On the ninth day after leaving Yokohama, Phileas Fogg had crossed exactly half of the world. The "General Grant" passed, on the 23rd of November, the one hundred and eightieth line of longitude, which is directly opposite London. Mr. Fogg had, it is true, used up fifty-two of the eighty days in which he was supposed to complete the journey, and only twenty-eight remained. But although he was only halfway by the measurement of longitude, he had really completed two thirds of the whole distance. This was because he had been forced to make long indirect routes — from London to Aden, from Aden to Bombay, from Calcutta to Singapore, and from Singapore to Yokohama. If he could have followed the fiftieth parallel — the same as London — in a straight line, the whole distance would have been only about twelve thousand miles. But he had been forced, by the irregular ways of travel, to cover twenty-six thousand miles, of which he had, by the 23rd of November, covered seventeen thousand five hundred. And now the route was straight, and Fix was no longer there to create problems!

It also happened, on the 23rd of November, that Passepartout made a happy discovery. It will be remembered that the stubborn man had insisted on keeping his famous family watch set to London time, and on treating the local times of all the countries he passed through as completely wrong and unreliable. Now, on this day, though he had not changed the hands, he found that his watch exactly matched the ship's clocks. His joy was very loud. He would have liked to know what Fix would say if he were on board!

"That liar told me many stories," repeated Passepartout, "about time zones, the sun, and the moon! Moon, indeed! Nonsense! If one listened to that sort of person, one would keep a terrible time! I was sure that the sun would one day agree with my watch!"

Passepartout did not know that if the face of his watch had been divided into twenty-four hours, like the Italian clocks, he would have had no reason to be happy. The hands of his watch would then be showing nine o'clock in the evening instead of nine in the morning — exactly the twenty-first hour after midnight — which was exactly the difference between London time and that of the one hundred and eightieth line of longitude. But even if Fix had been able to explain this simple fact of nature, Passepartout would not have accepted it, even if he had understood it. And besides, if the detective had been on board at that moment, Passepartout would have been arguing with him about a completely different topic, and in a very different way.

Where was Fix at that moment?

He was actually on board the "General Grant."

When he arrived at Yokohama, the detective, leaving Mr. Fogg, whom he expected to meet again during the day, had gone straight to the English consulate, where he finally found the arrest warrant. It had been following him from Bombay and had come on the "Carnatic," the very steamer on which he himself was supposed to have been travelling. Fix's disappointment can be imagined when he realised that the warrant was now useless. Mr. Fogg had left English territory, and it was now necessary to get him sent back officially!

"Well," thought Fix, after a moment of anger, "my warrant is no good here, but it will be in England. The criminal clearly plans to return to his own country, thinking he has lost the police. Good! I will follow him across the Atlantic. As for the money, let's hope there is some left! But the man has already spent more than five thousand pounds in travel, rewards, legal cases, bail, elephants, and all kinds of charges. Yet, after all, the Bank is rich!"

His plan decided, he got on board the "General Grant" and was there when Mr. Fogg and Aouda arrived. To his complete surprise, he recognised Passepartout, despite his theatrical costume. He quickly hid in his cabin to avoid an awkward conversation, and hoped — given the number of passengers — to remain unseen by Mr. Fogg's servant.

But on that very day he met Passepartout face to face on the front deck. Passepartout, without a word, rushed at him, grabbed him by the throat, and — to the great amusement of a group of Americans who immediately started betting on him — gave the detective a complete series of punches, which proved the clear superiority of French over English fighting skills.

When Passepartout was finished, he felt relieved and satisfied. Fix got up in a rather untidy condition, and looking at his opponent, said coldly, "Are you done?"

"For now — yes."

"Then let me have a word with you."

"But I—"

"In your master's interests."

Passepartout seemed to be overcome by Fix's calmness, and he quietly followed him. They sat down away from the other passengers.

"You have beaten me," said Fix. "Good, I expected it. Now, listen to me. Until now I have been Mr. Fogg's enemy. I am now working in his favour."

"Ah!" cried Passepartout. "You are convinced he is an honest man?"

"No," replied Fix coldly. "I think him a criminal. Be quiet, and let me speak. As long as Mr. Fogg was on English territory, it was in my interest to keep him there until my arrest warrant arrived. I did everything I could to hold him back. I sent the Bombay priests after him, I got you drunk in Hong Kong, I separated you from him, and I made him miss the Yokohama steamer."

Passepartout listened with his fists closed tightly.

"Now," continued Fix, "Mr. Fogg seems to be going back to England. Well, I will follow him there. But from now on I will do as much to remove problems from his path as I have done until now to put them there. I have changed my approach, as you can see, simply because it was in my interest to do so. Your interest is the same as mine. It is only in England that you will find out whether you are serving a criminal or an honest man."

Passepartout listened very carefully to Fix and was convinced that he was speaking completely honestly.

"Are we friends?" asked the detective.

"Friends — no," replied Passepartout. "But maybe partners. At the smallest sign of betrayal, however, I'll twist your neck."

"Agreed," said the detective calmly.

Eleven days later, on the 3rd of December, the "General Grant" entered the bay of the Golden Gate and reached San Francisco.

Mr. Fogg had neither gained nor lost a single day.
