
  The "Carnatic," leaving Hong Kong at half past six on the 7th of November, headed at full speed towards Japan. She carried a large amount of goods and a full cabin of passengers. Two rooms at the back were, however, empty — those which had been booked by Phileas Fogg.

The next day a passenger with half-closed eyes, unsteady steps, and messy hair was seen coming out of the second cabin, and making his way to a seat on deck.

It was Passepartout. What had happened to him was as follows: Shortly after Fix left the opium den, two workers had lifted the unconscious Passepartout and carried him to the bed kept for the smokers. Three hours later, still being followed even in his dreams by one single thought, the poor man woke up and tried to fight against the heavy effect of the drug. The thought of a duty not yet done shook off his tiredness, and he hurried out of the place of drunkenness. Staggering and holding himself up against the walls, falling down and getting up again, driven by a kind of natural instinct, he kept crying out, "The 'Carnatic!' the 'Carnatic!'"

The steamer was waiting at the dock, about to leave. Passepartout had only a few steps to go. Running across the boarding plank, he crossed it and fell unconscious on the deck, just as the "Carnatic" was moving off. Several sailors, who were clearly used to this kind of scene, carried the poor Frenchman down to the second cabin. Passepartout did not wake up until they were one hundred and fifty miles away from China. So the next morning he found himself on the deck of the "Carnatic," eagerly breathing in the fresh sea air. The clean air made him sober. He began to remember things, which he found difficult. But at last he remembered the events of the evening before — Fix's confession, and the opium house.

"It is clear," he said to himself, "that I got terribly drunk! What will Mr. Fogg say? At least I did not miss the steamer, which is the most important thing."

Then, thinking of Fix, he continued: "As for that criminal, I hope we are well rid of him, and that he has not dared, as he suggested, to follow us onto the 'Carnatic.' A detective following Mr. Fogg, who is accused of robbing the Bank of England! Nonsense! Mr. Fogg is no more a robber than I am a murderer."

Should he tell Fix's real mission to his master? Would it be right to tell him what the detective was doing? Would it not be better to wait until Mr. Fogg reached London again, and then tell him that a police agent had been following him around the world, and have a good laugh about it? Yes, no doubt. At least, it was worth thinking about. The first thing to do was to find Mr. Fogg and say sorry for his strange behaviour.

Passepartout got up and made his way, as best he could in the rolling of the steamer, to the back of the ship. He saw no one who looked like his master or Aouda. "Good!" he said to himself. "Aouda has not come up yet, and Mr. Fogg has probably found some card partners."

He went down to the main room. Mr. Fogg was not there. Passepartout only needed to ask the officer the number of his master's room. But the officer said he did not know any passenger by the name of Fogg.

"I'm sorry," said Passepartout, not giving up. "He is a tall gentleman, quiet, and not very talkative, and he has with him a young lady—"

"There is no young lady on board," the officer interrupted. "Here is a list of the passengers. You can check for yourself."

Passepartout looked through the list, but his master's name was not on it. Suddenly an idea hit him.

"Am I on the 'Carnatic?'"

"Yes."

"Going to Yokohama?"

"Certainly."

Passepartout had for a moment feared that he was on the wrong boat. But, although he was really on the "Carnatic," his master was not there.

He fell back on a seat, completely shocked. He understood everything now. He remembered that the sailing time had been changed, that he should have told his master about it, and that he had not done so. It was his fault, then, that Mr. Fogg and Aouda had missed the steamer. Yes, but it was even more the fault of the traitor who, in order to separate him from his master and keep the latter in Hong Kong, had tricked him into getting drunk! He now understood the detective's trick. At this moment Mr. Fogg was certainly ruined, his bet was certainly lost, and he himself was perhaps going to be arrested and put in prison! At this thought Passepartout pulled his hair. Ah, if Fix ever came within his reach, what an argument there would be!

After his first wave of sadness, Passepartout became calmer and began to think about his situation. It was certainly not a happy one. He was on his way to Japan. What should he do when he got there? His pocket was empty. He had no money at all. His passage had luckily been paid for in advance, and he had five or six days to decide what to do next. He sat down to eat with great appetite, and ate for Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and himself. He helped himself as generously as if Japan were a desert where no food could be found.

At dawn on the 13th the "Carnatic" entered the port of Yokohama. This is an important stopping point in the Pacific, where all the mail steamers and ships carrying travellers between North America, China, Japan, and the nearby islands call in. It is in the bay of Yeddo, close to that second capital of the Japanese Empire — the home of the Tycoon, the civil Emperor — before the Mikado, the spiritual Emperor, took over his role. The "Carnatic" anchored near the customs house, among a crowd of ships flying flags from all nations.

Passepartout went carefully ashore on this very interesting land of the Sons of the Sun. He had nothing better to do than wander through the streets of Yokohama with no plan. He first found himself in a very European area, with houses having low fronts and decorated with covered walkways, behind which he saw neat pillared entrances. This area occupied, with its streets, squares, docks, and warehouses, all the space between the "promontory of the Treaty" and the river. Here, as in Hong Kong and Calcutta, there were mixed crowds of all backgrounds — Americans and English, Chinese and Dutch — mostly merchants ready to buy or sell anything. The Frenchman felt as alone among them as if he had been dropped in the middle of a foreign land.

He had, at least, one option — to ask for help from the French and English consuls in Yokohama. But he did not want to tell the story of his adventures, which was so closely connected to that of his master. Before doing so, he decided to try all other possible ways to get help. As luck did not help him in the European area, he went into the part of the city where the native Japanese lived, determined, if necessary, to continue to Yeddo.

The Japanese area of Yokohama is called Benten, after the goddess of the sea, who is worshipped on the nearby islands. There Passepartout saw beautiful fir and cedar trees, unusual gates with special design, bridges half hidden among bamboo and reeds, temples shaded by huge cedar trees, peaceful places where Buddhist priests and followers of Confucius sheltered, and long streets full of pink-cheeked children who looked as if they had come out of Japanese pictures, playing among short-legged dogs and yellow cats.

The streets were full of people. Priests passed in processions, beating their steady drums. Police and customs officers wore pointed hats and carried two swords at their sides. Soldiers dressed in blue cotton with white stripes carried guns. The Mikado's guards wore silk robes and armour. Many military people of all ranks walked here and there in groups and pairs — for the military is as respected in Japan as it is looked down upon in China. Passepartout also saw begging monks, pilgrims in long robes, and ordinary citizens with their unusual black hair, large heads, long bodies, thin legs, and short height. Their skin colours ranged from copper to pale white, but never yellow like the Chinese, from whom the Japanese are very different. He noticed unusual vehicles — carriages and covered chairs, carts with sails, and bamboo carriers. He also noticed the women — who he did not think were especially beautiful — who took small steps on their small feet, wearing canvas shoes, straw sandals, and wooden clogs, with narrow-looking eyes, flat chests, fashionably blackened teeth, and gowns crossed with silk scarves tied in a huge knot at the back — a fashion which modern Parisian ladies seemed to have borrowed from the women of Japan.

Passepartout wandered for several hours among this mixed crowd, looking in at the windows of rich and interesting shops, jewellery stores shining with unusual Japanese ornaments, restaurants decorated with banners, tea houses where the fragrant drink was being enjoyed with "saki," a drink made from fermented rice, and comfortable smoking places where people were smoking not opium — which is almost unknown in Japan — but a very fine, thin tobacco. He walked on until he found himself in the countryside, among large rice fields. There he saw bright camellias in full colour, with flowers giving their last colours and smells — not on small bushes, but on trees, within bamboo fences, along with cherry, plum, and apple trees, which the Japanese grow more for their flowers than their fruit, and which strangely shaped, grinning scarecrows protected from sparrows, pigeons, ravens, and other hungry birds. On the branches of the cedar trees sat large eagles. In the leaves of the weeping willow trees stood herons, standing seriously on one leg. And everywhere there were crows, ducks, hawks, wild birds, and many cranes, which the Japanese consider holy and which they believe represent long life and happiness.

As he was walking, Passepartout noticed some violets among the bushes.

"Good!" he said to himself. "Something to eat."

But when he smelled them, he found they had no smell.

"Nothing here," he thought.

The good man had certainly been careful to eat a very large breakfast before leaving the "Carnatic." But since he had been walking all day, hunger was becoming very demanding. He noticed that the butchers' stalls had no sheep, goat, or pig meat. Knowing also that killing cattle — which are kept only for farming — is considered wrong, he understood that meat was hard to find in Yokohama. So, without butcher's meat, he wished for wild boar or deer, a bird, or some fish, which, with rice, the Japanese eat almost every day. But he knew he had to stay positive and wait until the following morning for a proper meal. Night came, and Passepartout went back into the native area, where he walked through the streets lit by colourful lanterns, watching dancers performing skillful moves and jumps, and astronomers standing outside with their telescopes. Then he came to the harbour, which was lit by the fire-torches of fishermen fishing from their boats.

The streets gradually became quiet, and the police patrol — whose officers, in their fine clothes and surrounded by their assistants, Passepartout thought looked like ambassadors — replaced the busy crowd. Each time a group passed, Passepartout smiled to himself and said, "Good! Another Japanese group heading to Europe!"
