

  Fix soon caught up with Passepartout, who was walking and looking around on the dock as if he felt no need to limit what he saw.

"Well, my friend," said the detective, walking up to him, "is your passport stamped?"

"Ah, it's you, is it, sir?" replied Passepartout. "Thank you, yes. The passport is all sorted."

"And you are looking around?"

"Yes. But we travel so fast that I feel as if I'm travelling in a dream. So this is Suez?"

"Yes."

"In Egypt?"

"Certainly, in Egypt."

"And in Africa?"

"In Africa."

"In Africa!" repeated Passepartout. "Just think, sir, I had no idea that we would go further than Paris. And all that I saw of Paris was between twenty minutes past seven and twenty minutes to nine in the morning, between the Northern and the Lyons railway stations, through the windows of a carriage, in heavy rain! How I regret not being able to see Père la Chaise and the circus in the Champs Élysées once more!"

"So you are in a great hurry, then?"

"I am not, but my master is. By the way, I need to buy some shoes and shirts. We left without any trunks — only with a travel bag."

"I will show you an excellent shop where you can get what you need."

"Really, sir, you are very kind."

And they walked off together, with Passepartout talking freely as they went along.

"Above all," he said, "don't let me miss the steamer."

"You have plenty of time. It is only twelve o'clock."

Passepartout pulled out his big watch. "Twelve!" he exclaimed. "Why, it's only eight minutes before ten."

"Your watch is slow."

"My watch? A family watch, sir, that has been passed down from my great-grandfather! It doesn't lose more than five minutes in a whole year. It's a perfect timepiece, I tell you."

"I see what has happened," said Fix. "You have kept London time, which is two hours behind that of Suez. You should reset your watch to midday in each country you visit."

"Reset my watch? Never!"

"Well, then, it won't match the sun."

"So much the worse for the sun, sir. The sun will be wrong, then!"

And the good man put his watch back in his pocket with a defiant gesture. After a few minutes of silence, Fix continued: "So you left London in a hurry, then?"

"I rather think so! Last Friday at eight o'clock in the evening, Monsieur Fogg came home from his club, and three-quarters of an hour later we were on our way."

"But where is your master going?"

"Always straight ahead. He is going around the world."

"Around the world!" cried Fix.

"Yes, and in eighty days! He says it is because of a bet. But between you and me, I don't believe a word of it. That wouldn't make common sense. There's something else going on."

"Ah! So Mr. Fogg is quite a character, is he?"

"I should say so."

"Is he rich?"

"No doubt, because he is carrying an enormous amount in brand new banknotes. And he doesn't save money on the journey either. He has offered a large reward to the engineer of the Mongolia if we arrive in Bombay well ahead of time."

"And you have known your master for a long time?"

"Why, no. I entered his service the very day we left London."

One can easily imagine the effect of these replies on the already suspicious and excited detective. The quick departure from London soon after the robbery, the large sum of money Mr. Fogg was carrying, his eagerness to reach distant countries, the excuse of an unusual and risky bet — all confirmed Fix in his belief. He continued to question poor Passepartout and learned that he really knew very little about his master, who lived a solitary life in London, was said to be rich though nobody knew where his wealth came from, and was mysterious and hard to understand in his affairs and habits. Fix was now certain that Phileas Fogg would not go ashore at Suez, but was truly going on to Bombay.

"Is Bombay far from here?" asked Passepartout.

"Quite far. It is a ten-day voyage by sea."

"And in what country is Bombay?"

"India."

"In Asia?"

"Certainly."

"Oh! I was going to tell you — there is one thing that worries me. My gas burner!"

"What gas burner?"

"The one I forgot to turn off, which is burning at my expense at this very moment. I have calculated, sir, that I lose two shillings every twenty-four hours — exactly sixpence more than I earn. And you will understand that the longer our journey—"

Did Fix pay any attention to Passepartout's worry about the gas? Probably not. He was not listening, but was thinking about a plan. Passepartout and he had now reached the shop, where Fix left his companion to make his purchases, after reminding him not to miss the steamer, and then hurried back to the consulate. Now that he was fully convinced, Fix had completely recovered his calm.

"Consul," he said, "I no longer have any doubt. I have found my man. He is pretending to be an unusual person who is going around the world in eighty days."

"Then he's a clever fellow," replied the consul, "and he is counting on returning to London after putting the police of two countries off his trail."

"We'll see about that," replied Fix.

"But are you not mistaken?"

"I am not mistaken."

"Why was this robber so eager to prove, by the official stamp, that he had passed through Suez?"

"Why? I have no idea. But listen to me."

He told him briefly the most important parts of his conversation with Passepartout.

"In short," said the consul, "everything points against this man. And what are you going to do?"

"Send a message to London requesting an arrest warrant to be sent immediately to Bombay, take passage on board the Mongolia, follow my suspect to India, and there, on English soil, arrest him politely, with my warrant in my hand and my hand on his shoulder."

Having said these words in a calm and relaxed manner, the detective took his leave of the consul and went to the telegraph office, from where he sent the message we have already seen to the London police. A quarter of an hour later, Fix, with a small bag in his hand, was making his way on board the Mongolia. And before much longer, the great steamer was sailing at full speed across the waters of the Red Sea.
