

   Jane Austen was an English writer, born on 16th December 1775, in the village of Steventon, in Hampshire. The seventh child in a family of eight, she was the daughter of reverend George Austen, and Cassandra (Leigh) Austen. George loved learning, and his children shared his passion, while Cassandra Leigh was known for her improvised stories. Both were big influences on Jane’s love for writing. Jane had six brothers and one other sister she was extremely close to, also named Cassandra. The family would move a lot throughout Jane’s life, living most famously in Bath, which she used as background to her novels. In 1816, Jane started feeling unwell. Her health worsened* as the years passed, and by 1817, she could not leave her bed. She moved to Winchester with her sister to receive treatment but, unfortunately, passed away on 18th July, 1817. Austen was never married, and little is known about her love life, as her sister burnt all her letters on that matter.
   Pride and Prejudice is one of six novels written by Austen and generally considered the most popular. It was published anonymously* in 1813, and its author would only be revealed after her death, by her own brother. Austen began writing the novel as a short story in 1796 with the title First Impressions. The title Pride and Prejudice would be taken from a quote from the novel Cecelia, by fellow author Fanny Burney. While it would later become her most famous novel, Austen did not receive much money for it at the time – she asked the publisher for £150 but, in the end, sold the rights for £110. Austen also worried that the book was not serious enough but wrote to her sister Cassandra that she was ‘satisfied enough’ with the
story. She would also call the character of Elizabeth Bennet ‘as delightful* a creature as ever appeared in print’. It seems that many agree with her, as Pride and Prejudice became a classic in literature and was adapted multiple times, including films, five TV series from the BBC alone and many rewritings using modern themes.
Elizabeth Bennet is one of five unmarried daughters in the Bennet house, and their mother is obsessed with finding suitable husbands for her daughters. When a young bachelor, by the name of Charles Bingley, moves into town, Mrs Bennet sees an opportunity to marry one of her daughters. The girls attend a ball where Mr Bingley is present, along with his best friend Fitzwilliam Darcy. Mr Bingley shows interest in Jane Bennet, the eldest Bennet sister, and encourages Mr Darcy to dance with Elizabeth. The man refuses, letting out a rude comment on Elizabeth’s appearance and class, loud enough for her to hear. What follows is a chaotic* relationship between the two young people, as they must both work on their pride and prejudice to be with one another. 
   