The story so far

Mrs Bennet is angry at her husband for thinking he shouldn’t have to visit Mr Bingley. We are introduced to the Bennet sisters, Jane, Elizabeth (Lizzy), Mary, Catherine (Kitty) and Lydia, who all talk of Mr Bingley with their parents. After a long discussion, they find out that Mr Bennet had actually listened to his wife in the end and paid a visit to Mr Bingley that same morning. The young man then travels to London to bring his two sisters, his cousin, his brother-in-law, and lastly, his best friend, Mr Darcy. They go together to a ball, which the Bennet girls also attend. While Mr Bingley is friendly with everyone, he is charmed by Jane Bennet and dances with her for most of the night. Mr Darcy, however, seems to dislike the party, and Elizabeth overhears a shared conversation with his friend.

The main content

‘Come, Darcy,’ said Mr. Bingley, ‘I must have you dance. I hate to see you standing about by yourself in this stupid way. You had much better dance.’ ‘I certainly will not. You know how I hate it unless I know my partner very well. At such a party as this, it would be horrible. Your sisters are engaged, and there is not another woman in the room whom I would like to stand up with.’ ‘I would not be as picky* as you are,’ cried Mr. Bingley, ‘for a kingdom! I swear* I have never met with so many lovely girls in my life as I have this evening; and several of them are very pretty.’ ‘You are dancing with the only beautiful girl in the room,’ said Mr. Darcy, looking at the eldest Miss Bennet. ‘Oh! She is the most beautiful creature I have ever seen! But there is one of her sisters sitting down just behind you who is very pretty, and I dare* say, very pretty. Do let me ask my partner to introduce you.’ ‘Which do you mean?’ and turning round he looked for a moment at Elizabeth. When he caught her eye, Mr. Darcy looked away and coldly said: ‘She is pleasant* but not beautiful enough for me; I am in no mood at the moment to give attention to young ladies who are ignored by other men. You had better return to your partner and enjoy her smiles, for you are wasting your time with me.’ Mr. Bingley followed his advice. Mr. Darcy walked off; and Elizabeth remained with no very friendly feelings toward him. She told the story, however, laughing with her friends; for she had a lively, playful manner and found ridiculous* things like this very funny. The evening went pleasantly for the whole family. They returned home, therefore, in a good mood. They found Mr. Bennet still up. When he had a good book, he often lost track of time. He also was curious to find out what happened, so he stayed up. He had rather hoped that his wife’s views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found out that he had a different story to hear. ‘Oh! my dear Mr. Bennet,’ as Mrs. Bennet entered the room, ‘we have had a most delightful evening, a most excellent ball. I wish you had been there. Jane was so admired, everybody said how well she looked; and Mr. Bingley thought her quite beautiful, and danced with her twice! Only think of that, my dear; he actually danced with her twice! and she was the only creature in the room that he asked a second time. Oh, my dear, I am quite delighted with him. He is so handsome! And his sisters are charming* women. I have never in my life seen anything more elegant than their dresses. The lace* upon Mrs. Hurst’s gown*–’ Here she was interrupted* because Mr. Bennet protested against hearing these descriptions. She, therefore, had to find another topic and told him, with much anger and some exaggeration*, how rude Mr. Darcy had been. ‘But I can assure you,’ Mrs. Bennet added, ‘that Lizzy does not lose much by not pleasing him, for he is a most horrible man. So proud and so conceited* that no one could stand him! He walked here, and he walked there, thinking himself to be so very great! He said that Lizzy was not handsome enough to dance with! I wish you had been there, my dear, to have shown him his place. I quite hate the man.’
