The story so far

   The main

Mrs Bennet, Lydia and Catherine arrive at Netherfield to visit Jane and Elizabeth. Mrs Bennet, not used to the life of the rich, embarrasses herself in front of the Bingleys. Later, Elizabeth notices Caroline trying to win over Mr Darcy; from complimenting his writing to reading the sequel of the book Darcy is reading. However, Darcy only becomes more and more interested in Elizabeth with every argument they have. Jane gets better, and she and Elizabeth return to the Bennets’ house. Mr Collins, who will take over the Bennets’ property when Mr Bennet passes away, comes for a visit. He is a very boring man who is looking for a wife and takes interest in Elizabeth. Mr Collins visits town with the Bennet sisters, and they are introduced to two military men: Mr Denny, who is Lydia’s friend, and Mr Wickham. They all attend a dinner party at the Bennets’ uncle, where Elizabeth and Mr Wickham end up talking to each other alone. The topic of Mr Darcy and Mr Wickham comes up in the conversation.


The main content

‘Yes – the late Mr. Darcy left me enough to live more than a comfortable life in his gift. He was my godfather*, and very attached to me. I cannot do justice to* his kindness. He meant to provide for me and thought he had done it; but when he died, it was given to someone else,’ said Mr. Wickham. ‘Good heavens!’ cried Elizabeth; ‘but how could that be? How could his will be ignored? Why did you not look for legal advice?’ ‘There was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest* as to give me no hope from law. A man of honour could not have doubted the intention, but Mr. Darcy chose to doubt it – or to treat it as just a recommendation and to claim that I had given up all claim to it by extravagance*, imprudence* – in short, anything or nothing. Certain it is that the inheritance became available two years ago, exactly as I was of an age to hold it, and it was given to another man; and no less certain is it that I cannot accuse myself of having really done anything to deserve to lose it. I have a warm, careless temper*, and I may have spoken my opinion of him, and to him, too freely. I can recall nothing worse. But the fact is that we are very different sorts of men, and that he hates me.’ Mr. Wickam explained. ‘This is quite shocking! He deserves to be disgraced* in public.’ ‘Some time or other he will be – but it shall not be by me. Till I can forget his father, I can never expose him.’ Elizabeth honoured him for such feelings and thought him handsomer than ever as he expressed them. ‘But what,’ said Elizabeth after a pause, ‘can have been his motivation*? What can have made him be so cruel?’ ‘A strong and determined dislike of me – a dislike, which I cannot but blame partly on jealousy. Had the late Mr. Darcy liked me less, his son might have related to me better; but his father’s uncommon connection to me irritated him, I believe, very early in life. He had not a temper to tolerate* the sort of competition in which we stood – the sort of preference which was often given me.’ ‘I had not thought Mr. Darcy so bad as this – though I have never liked him. I had not thought so very ill of him. I had supposed he hated his fellow-creatures in general but did not suspect him of being capable of such malicious revenge, such injustice, such inhumanity as this’ Elizabeth said. After a few minutes’ reflection, however, she continued, ‘I do remember his boasting* one day, at Netherfield, of the strength of his resentments*, of his being unforgiving. His manner must be terrible.’ ‘I will not trust myself on the subject,’ replied Wickham; ‘I can hardly be fair to him.’ Elizabeth was again deep in thought and, after a time, exclaimed, ‘To treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite of his father!’ She could have added, ‘A young man, too, like you, whose very manner may vouch for* your being friendly’ – but she just said ‘and one, too, who had probably been his friend from childhood, connected together, as I think you said, in the closest manner!’
