The story so far

Mr Bingley invites the Bennet sisters to another ball at Netherfield. Elizabeth has no choice but to promise her first two dances to Mr Collins, but she is excited to see Mr Wickham again. When he does not show, she finds out that Mr Wickham does not visit Netherfield because of Mr Darcy. To try and escape Mr Collins, Elizabeth dances with Mr Darcy, and they find themselves talking of Mr Wickham. Mr Darcy avoids the subject. The very next day, Mr Collins proposes to Elizabeth who turns him down, and he, in turn, proposes to Charlotte. Mr Bingley returns to London, where he will stay all winter. Mr Gardiner, Mrs Bennet’s brother, invites Jane to stay with his family in London, which she accepts in hopes of seeing Mr Bingley. He also notices Mr Wickham and Elizabeth growing closer and warns her that she should marry someone rich instead. Mr Wickham, however, is interested in a rich woman named Miss King and intends to marry her. When visiting Jane and the Gardiners, Elizabeth is invited to travel with them to the countryside. There, she finds Mr Darcy who is visiting with his cousin, Colonel Fitzwilliam. During one of their conversations, Fitzwilliam mentions that Mr Darcy has recently told him that he had stopped a friend from marrying the wrong person. Elizabeth believes that this was to do with Mr Bingley and Jane. While reflecting on this news alone, Mr Darcy arrives and proposes to her. He does, however, mention her poverty and lowly connections, and how he had decided to ignore them in order to confess his feelings. Elizabeth becomes extremely upset.


The main content

‘And of course, you had no right to interfere with any relations between my sister and Mr. Bingley, no matter the reason you claim to separate the two. Jane is very shy and barely expresses her true feelings to me, and yet I can assure you she is very much in love with your friend. But it is not just the matter of my sister and Mr. Bingley,’ she continued, ‘on which my dislike is founded. Long before it had taken place, my opinion of you was decided. Your character was revealed in the recital which I received many months ago from Mr. Wickham. On this subject, what can you have to say? In what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself?’ ‘You take a keen interest in that gentleman’s concerns,’ said Darcy in a less calm tone and with a reddish colour. ‘Who that knows what his misfortunes have been, can help feeling an interest in him?’ ‘His misfortunes!’ repeated Darcy with irony; ‘yes, his misfortunes have been great indeed.’ ‘And because of you,’ cried Elizabeth with energy. ‘You have reduced him to his present state of poverty. You have refused to give what you must know to have been intended for him. You have taken away the best years of his life of that independence which he deserved. You have done all this! And yet you can treat the mention of his misfortune as if it didn’t deserve respect.’ ‘And this,’ cried Darcy, as he walked with quick steps across the room, ‘is your opinion of me! I thank you for explaining it so fully. My faults, according to this calculation, are heavy indeed! But perhaps,’ added he, stopping in his walk and turning towards her, ‘these offences might have been overlooked*, had not your pride been hurt by my honest confession of the feelings that had long prevented my forming any serious arrangement. These bitter accusations might have been suppressed had I, with greater effort, hidden my feelings and flattered you into the belief of my being motivated by true inclination*; by reason, by reflection, by everything. But I hate lies of every sort. Nor am I ashamed of the feelings I expressed. They were natural and fair. Could you expect me to be happy about the inferiority of your connections? – to congratulate myself on the hope of relations, whose condition in life is so surely beneath my own?’ Elizabeth felt herself growing more angry every moment; yet she tried her best to speak calmly when she said: ‘You are mistaken, Mr. Darcy, if you suppose that your tone affected me in any other way than as it saved me the concern which I might have felt in refusing you, had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike* manner.’ She saw Mr. Darcy was about to speak, but he said nothing, and she continued: ‘You could not have made the offer of your hand in any possible way that would have made me accept it.’ Again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with a mixed expression of not believing and being deeply embarrassed. She went on: ‘From the very beginning – from the first moment, I may almost say – of my acquaintance* with you, your manners, impressing me with the fullest belief of your arrogance and your selfish lack of respect for the feelings of others, were such as to form the foundation* of dislike which events afterwards have built so strong; and I had not known you a month before I felt that you were the last man in the world whom I could ever be persuaded to marry.’ ‘You have said quite enough, madam. I perfectly understand your feelings and have now only to be ashamed of what my own have been. Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and accept my best wishes for your health and happiness
