Considered by many the greatest playwright* of all times, William Shakespeare wrote many world-famous works, including Romeo and Juliet, Hamlet, Macbeth and The Merchant of Venice. William Shakespeare was born in 1564 in Stratford-upon-Avon, in the centre of England. As a young man, Shakespeare worked as an actor before becoming the most popular playwright of his time, having written at least 37 plays, 154 sonnets* and two narrative poems. Nowadays, his plays are performed around the world in many languages, and his poetry has been widely translated, too. It is believed that Shakespeare was born and died on the exact same day, 23 April, 52 years apart.
       As You Like It was written between 1598 and 1600. It is believed to have been first performed in 1599 as the opening play for the new Globe Theatre* in London. It was published in a collection of Shakespeare’s plays in 1623, and the play was heavily inspired* by the story of Rosalynde, a 1590 romance* by Thomas Lodge. He also took inspiration from the medieval* poem The Tale* of Gamelyn. While not as well known as other Shakespearean plays, As You Like It has been adapted* to TV, musical theatre and films, including performances as Orlando by Laurence Olivier in 1936 and David Oyelowo in 2006.
       As You Like It follows the story of Orlando, the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys. After his father’s death, he is forced to live in poverty by his older brother, Oliver. As a chance to prove himself and rebel* against Oliver, Orlando decided to fight the court wrestler, Charles. Meanwhile, Duke Senior has been replaced by his own brother, Duke Frederick, in the royal court. While this means Senior is forbidden* from court, Frederick allows his brother’s daughter Rosalind to remain, as she is close friends with his daughter Celia. Rosalind and Orlando meet at the wrestling match and fall in love at first sight. Since this means Rosalind becomes a threat* to his rule, Frederick banishes her to the forest of Arden. Celia follows her cousin into exile* without her father’s knowledge. Orlando, who discovers his brother’s plot to kill him, flees* into the same forest. What follows is an exciting adventure, filled with romance, comedy and many misunderstandings.
    