The story so far

Sir Rowland de Boys has died and left behind two sons, Orlando and Oliver. As the eldest, Oliver receives most of his father’s belongings and estate, leaving Orlando with a small amount of money after their father’s passing*. Sir Rowland wishes for Orlando to pursue* an education, but Oliver refuses to obey* their father’s last wishes, and while he sends their other brother, Jaques, to school, he does not allow Orlando to do the same. Orlando complains to a servant about his situation, swearing* he will no longer take this treatment from his older brother. Oliver, hearing all this, enters the room and starts a fight with his younger brother, which becomes physical very quickly as Orlando grabs* Oliver by the throat.

The main content

Oliver: Are you going to put your hands on me, you villain*? Orlando: I’m no villain. I’m the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys. He was my father, and if anyone calls his sons villains, they are themselves three times a villain. If you weren’t my brother, I wouldn’t let go of your throat until I pulled your tongue out for saying this. 


Orlando makes Oliver promise to give him enough money to pursue an education. After being dismissed, Oliver calls for Charles, the court wrestler. He gives Oliver news that the Duke Senior was replaced by his younger brother, Duke Frederick, and Duke Senior fled to the forest with other noblemen who rebelled. Senior’s daughter, Rosalind, is allowed to remain at court, as she is good friends with Frederick’s daughter, Celia. Charles then reveals that Orlando plans to fight him in the upcoming wrestling match, and he is afraid of hurting him. Oliver gives him full permission to do so, and after Charles leaves, he goes over his plan to get rid of Orlando. 


Oliver: Now I will cause trouble for my silly brother. I hope this will be the end of him. Even though I don’t know why, my soul* hates him more than anything. He is a nice man. Even though he never went to school, he is very smart, and he is very noble*. And everyone loves him, even my own people, who know him very well, love him and hate me. But not for long; this wrestler will end him for me. All I have to do is to convince my brother to fight, which I will do now.