The story so far

Orlando visits Ganymede for his lessons in love. As Orlando courts Ganymede as if she were Rosalind, Rosalind realizes she is more in love with him than she thought. He leaves for dinner with the Duke Senior, promising to return two hours later. While Celia and Rosalind complain that Orlando is late, Silvius arrives with a letter for Ganymede from Phoebe, warning* Rosalind that the letter might be hurtful as she looked angry while writing it. Rosalind reads it to find another love confession. She asks Silvius to tell Phoebe that Ganymede will never love her, unless she loves Silvius. He exits. Suddenly, Oliver arrives, asking the pair if they are Ganymede and Aliena. When Rosalind confirms it, Oliver hands her a bloody handkerchief*, saying it belonged to Orlando. Rosalind asks what happened. Oliver tells the story – after leaving Ganymede, Orlando found a man asleep in the forest. He noticed that the man was being watched by a snake, but after scaring* the animal away, he found a hungry lioness ready to attack the man he soon discovered to be his brother, Oliver.


The main content

Oliver: He turned his back twice, thinking of leaving me there. But his kindness was stronger than his desire for revenge*, and his good heart couldn’t keep him from leaving his brother behind. He fought with the lioness, who quickly died, and the noise from their fight woke me from my sleep. 




Oliver says that once Orlando saved his life, he became a new man, and they became friends. They decided to go to Duke Senior together. 








Oliver: When we saw each other again and told our stories while crying – for me, how I had come to that deserted* place – he took me to the noble duke, who gave me fresh clothes, food and drink and left me to my brother’s care*. Orlando then took me to his cave*, where he took off his clothes and saw that he had a wound* on his arm, where the lioness had bitten him. This wound had been bleeding* the whole time. Orlando fainted while crying out for ‘Rosalind’.




Orlando then asked Oliver to apologize to a man named Ganymede, who he called by the name Rosalind, and to give him his bloody handkerchief. Hearing this story, Rosalind fainted. Celia and Oliver help her wake up, and Oliver comments how Ganymede did not have a man’s heart if he fainted so easily. Rosalind lies and says that she was only acting and to tell Orlando how good of a teacher Ganymede was. But Oliver was not convinced. 