The story so far

Oliver meets Orlando, telling him that he is in love with Aliena (who is actually Celia), Ganymede’s sister. He tells him that he plans to marry her, and that once he does, he will give back their father’s estate and belongings to Orlando. While Orlando is happy for his brother, he admits to Ganymede that he misses Rosalind. Hearing this, Ganymede promises him that he will marry Rosalind as soon as Oliver marries Aliena. Phoebe enters with Silvius and accuses Ganymede of being cruel. Rosalind tries to encourage her to marry Silvius once again but, in the end, promises Phoebe that if Ganymede ever marries a woman, she would be the bride the very next day. They all agree to meet at Oliver’s wedding. The following day, Ganymede enters the ceremony. He says that, as promised, Orlando was to marry Rosalind and that her father, Duke Senior, would allow it. Phoebe would marry Ganymede; if not, she would marry Silvius. Once everyone agrees, he leaves once again with Celia. Duke Senior comments that Ganymede reminded him of his daughter


The main content

Hymen: Quiet, now! I will clear up any confusion. I’m the one who will bring the ending to these strange events. Here before me are eight people, who must join hands and be married, if what I tell them is what they feel. [To Rosalind and Orlando] No fight will ever break you apart. [To Celia and Oliver] Your hearts are together as one. [To Phoebe] You must accept his love. [To Audrey and Touchstone] You two belong together, like winter and bad weather.


Phoebe agrees to marry Silvius. Duke Senior, happy to see his daughter once again, allows her to marry Orlando. The happy couples dance and celebrate but are soon interrupted by Jacque de Boys, Oliver and Orlando’s other brother.








Jacque de Boys: Let me have your attention for a word or two. I am the second son of old Sir Rowland, and I bring news to this fine gathering. Duke Frederick, who heard that many noble men were coming to this forest every day, put together a powerful army to take this land and kill his brother. They arrived at the edge of the forest, and there they met with an old religious man. They talked for a while, and, in the end, the man helped Duke Frederick give up the war and this world to become a religious man himself. He now gives his crown to his brother and the lands back to his men. I swear on my life that this is all true.



All celebrate and decide to return to court together. Orlando becomes Duke Senior’s heir, and Oliver’s lands and belongings will once again return to him. Jacques, however, decides to join Sir Frederick in the monastery. The play ends.
