Najla Imad Lafta was a happy little Iraqi girl who waited patiently at her doorstep for her father, Mr Imad Lafta, to come home from work. One day, however, when Najla was only three years old, disaster struck: a bomb attached to her father’s car went off when Najla Imad Lafta was nearby. She was rushed to hospital and survived the shameless attack, but she lost much of her right arm and both legs. With the love of her parents and siblings and the support of the Iraqi healthcare system, which provided the necessary treatments and medication to help her, Najla Imad Lafta grew up and adjusted to life in a wheelchair. She went to school and did most things other girls her age did but still longed to run around like the other children. At the age of ten, her life would change a second time: she discovered table tennis. Even though she had to train to use her left hand to hold the racket (she was born right-handed), she practised tirelessly and soon became very skilled at the sport. Najla started taking part in competitions, and with hard daily practice, she continued improving her game. She earned a place in the Iraqi Paralympic team aged only 12, when she started receiving support like a small salary and equipment, including prostheses. These proved useful for her because she was able to play standing, which made a big difference to her game. At the age of 16, Najla became the youngest table tennis player to qualify for the Tokyo 2020 Paralympics and won gold at the 2022 Asian Para Games. In 2024, at just 19 years old, she faced her biggest sporting moment: the Paris 2024 Paralympics. She played skillfully, defeating the main names in the sport and reaching the fi nal against Tokyo 2020 champion Maryna Lytovchenko from Ukraine. In an exciting match, Najla successfully beat her opponent by three sets to one, winning the gold medal she wanted so much and writing her name in history books. In an interview before setting off to Paris, Najla said ‘Never stop, nothing is impossible. With our determination and resolve, we can achieve what we want and make our dreams a reality.’ 