Technology is changing the way we exercise. In the past, people used to go to the gym to work out, but now the gym is going to people’s houses!

Until a few years ago, people didn’t use to have a gym at home unless they were very rich. But with new technologies and equipment, it’s now easier to work out from home. A good example of this are online exercise communities. In the past, you used to join a club if you wanted to cycle with others, for example. Nowadays, you can buy a stationary bike, have online lessons and work out with lots of people online, without leaving your house. Fitness apps are another example of technology changing fitness. The first ones used to measure basic things, like distances and speed, but more modern apps now are able to measure a lot more, including how fast your heart is beating, how many calories you are burning and even how well you sleep. So, is this the end for gyms? Experts say things are harder than they used to be for gym owners. They used to compete only with other gyms in the area, but now they also have to compete with online and home gyms. However, sports clubs that


also take advantage of the new technology will stay open. Gyms now offer much more advanced technology than they used to. They are investing in devices that most people still can’t afford to have in their homes. A good example is the workout mirror. People used to look at mirrors in gyms just to see how they looked while doing exercise, but now these hi-tech mirrors can actually teach you how to work out! Another thing lots of gyms are using now is Artificial Intelligence (AI). AI systems allow gyms to have much more data about their clients and build an ideal workout plan for them, as well as check their progress. For this reason, it’s also important for personal trainers to learn how to use these devices. Being good with technology didn’t use to be a requirement for personal trainers, but now it’s a key part of their job. So what does the future of fitness look like? It’s hard to say, but for sure, whether at home or at a smart gym, technology is going to continue to help you stay fit more and more.