A Today it is more important than ever to ensure that we take enough breaks and holidays. Life is so fast, and we spend such a large part of our time working hard that we really need to take sufficient time out. If we don’t, the pressure of life can affect both our physical and mental health.


 B The stress of modern life can cause severe problems. It can cause high blood pressure, which can then cause strokes and heart attacks. It also has an effect on our minds. If we are always on the move, we don’t always notice how far we push our bodies. We don’t eat regular meals, we don’t get enough sleep, and our free time is often interrupted by phone calls. The human body cannot continue like this indefinitely. Both brain and body need a break. If we push them too far, they will eventually let us down.



C There are more and more ‘workaholics’ these days who think that their work is too important to leave in the hands of others. These people cannot bear to be away from the office for more than a few hours. They put off taking holidays or breaks because there is always another deadline or another deal around the corner. They often discover too late that there is more to life than work.


D People like this risk hurting not only their health but their personal relationships, too. Everyone needs to spend time with family or friends, and this time needs to be more than the occasional snatched hour here or there. People who are close to us need to know that we care about them. Giving them a significant amount of our time is how we show this. Holiday time can give us this opportunity.

E Holidays are important for everyone, not just the businessman. We all need a change of scene and a change of pace. We need to relax and take our minds off work, school, the house or whatever problems are worrying us at the time. It doesn’t matter whether we choose to spend this time lying on a beach, trekking through rainforests or sightseeing. What is important is the change. A change of routine often helps us to look at our own lives in a different way. Holidays are vital to our general well-being. And leaving the mobile phone switched off. That is vital, too!
