For a minute or two, Alice stood looking at the house, thinking about what she should do next, when suddenly a footman in official uniform came running out of the wood. (She decided he was a footman because of the uniform, or “livery”; otherwise, judging only by his face, she would have called him a fish.) He rapped loudly on the door with his knuckles. The door was opened by another footman, also in livery, who had a round face and large eyes, like a frog. Alice noticed that both footmen had powdered hair styled into curls all over their heads. She felt extremely curious to know what this encounter was about, so she crept a little way out of the wood to listen carefully.

The Fish-Footman started by pulling out a huge letter from under his arm, a letter nearly as large as himself. He handed it over to the other footman, saying in a solemn tone, “For the Duchess. An invitation from the Queen to play croquet.” The Frog-Footman repeated the message in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the words slightly: “From the Queen. An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet.”

Then they both bowed low, and their curled hair got tangled up together.

Alice laughed so hard at this that she had to quickly run back into the wood for fear of them hearing her. When she next peeped out, the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other footman was sitting on the ground near the door, staring blankly up into the sky.

Alice walked timidly up to the door and knocked gently.

“There’s absolutely no point in knocking,” said the Footman, without looking down, “and that is for two very good reasons. First, because I am sitting on the same side of the door as you are. Secondly, because they are making such a terrible noise inside, no one could possibly hear you.” And certainly, there was an extraordinary noise coming from within—a constant howling and sneezing, mixed with a loud crash every now and then, as if a plate or kettle had been smashed to pieces.

“Please, then,” said Alice, “how am I supposed to get in?”

“There might be some sense in your knocking,” the Footman continued, ignoring her question completely, “if we had the door standing between us. For example, if you were inside, you could knock, and I could let you out, you know.” He was looking up into the sky the entire time he spoke, and Alice thought this was decidedly rude. “But perhaps he can’t help it,” she reasoned to herself; “his eyes are placed so very close to the top of his head. But at any rate, he could at least answer my questions. How am I to get in?” she repeated, speaking more loudly.

“I shall sit right here,” the Footman remarked calmly, “until tomorrow—”

At that exact moment, the door of the house opened, and a large plate came skimming out, flying straight toward the Footman’s head. It just grazed his nose and smashed to pieces against one of the trees behind him.

“—or maybe the day after that,” the Footman continued in the same tone, acting as if nothing at all had happened.

“How am I to get in?” Alice asked again, using an even louder voice.

“Are you supposed to get in at all?” said the Footman. “That is the very first question, you know.”

It was, no doubt, the logical first question. Only Alice did not like to be told so. “It’s truly dreadful,” she muttered to herself, “the way all the creatures here argue about everything. It’s enough to drive one completely insane!”

The Footman seemed to think this was a perfect opportunity to repeat his earlier statement, with slight changes. “I shall sit here,” he said, “off and on, for days and days.”

“But what am I to do?” asked Alice.

“Anything you like,” said the Footman, and he began to whistle a tune.

“Oh, there is no use in talking to him,” Alice said desperately. “He’s perfectly idiotic!” And with that, she opened the door and walked inside.

The door led immediately into a large kitchen, which was entirely filled with smoke from one end to the other. The Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in the middle of the room, cradling a baby. The Cook was leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron that seemed to be full of soup.

“There is certainly far too much pepper in that soup!” Alice said to herself, sneezing loudly as she spoke.

There was definitely too much pepper in the air. Even the Duchess sneezed occasionally, and as for the baby, it was sneezing and howling without a moment’s pause, alternating between the two noises. The only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze were the Cook, and a large Cat that was sitting near the fireplace and grinning widely from ear to ear.

“Please, would you tell me,” said Alice, speaking a little timidly, as she was unsure if it was proper etiquette for her to speak first, “why your cat grins like that?”

“It’s a Cheshire Cat,” said the Duchess, “and that is the reason why. Pig!”

She said the last word with such sudden force that Alice jumped in surprise. But in another moment, Alice saw that the word was addressed to the baby, not to her, so she took courage and continued:

“I didn’t know that Cheshire cats always grinned. In fact, I didn’t know that cats could grin at all.”

“They all can,” said the Duchess. “And most of them do.”

“I don’t know of any that do,” Alice said very politely, feeling quite pleased to have finally started a proper conversation.

“You don’t know much at all,” said the Duchess flatly. “And that’s a simple fact.”

Alice did not like the tone of this remark one bit, and she thought it would be best to quickly bring up a different topic of conversation. While she was struggling to decide on one, the Cook took the cauldron of soup off the fire and immediately began throwing every object within her reach at the Duchess and the baby. The fire-irons came first, followed by a shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess paid no attention to them, even when they hit her. The baby was already howling so loudly that it was impossible to tell whether the blows were hurting it or not.

“Oh, please be careful what you are doing!” cried Alice, jumping up and down in a state of sheer terror. “Oh, there goes his precious nose!” she exclaimed, as an unusually large saucepan flew close by the baby’s face and very nearly carried its nose right off.

“If everyone would simply mind their own business,” the Duchess said in a rough growl, “the world would spin around much faster than it does.”

“Which would not be an advantage,” said Alice, who felt very pleased to have an opportunity to show off a little of her school knowledge. “Just think of what a huge problem it would cause with the day and night! You see, the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn around on its axis—”

“Speaking of axes,” said the Duchess abruptly, “chop off her head!”

Alice glanced rather worriedly at the Cook to see if she intended to follow the suggestion. But the Cook was busily stirring the soup and didn't seem to be listening, so Alice continued: “Twenty-four hours, I think; or is it twelve? I—”

“Oh, don’t bother me with figures,” said the Duchess, interrupting. “I never could stand figures!” And with that, she began nursing her child again, singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at the end of every line:

“Speak roughly to your little boy, And beat him when he sneezes: He only does it to annoy, Because he knows it teases.”

CHORUS. (In which the Cook and the baby joined): “Wow! wow! wow!”

While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept violently tossing the baby up and down, and the poor little thing howled so loudly that Alice could barely hear the words:

“I speak severely to my boy, I beat him when he sneezes; For he can thoroughly enjoy The pepper when he pleases!”

CHORUS. “Wow! wow! wow!”

“Here! You may nurse it for a bit, if you like!” the Duchess said to Alice, flinging the baby roughly at her as she spoke. “I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen,” and she hurried out of the room. The Cook threw a frying-pan after her as she left, but it missed her just barely.

Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a strangely shaped little creature, holding out its arms and legs in every direction, “just like a star-fish,” Alice thought. The poor little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it, and it kept constantly doubling itself up and straightening itself out again. For the first minute or two, it was all she could manage just to hold onto it.

As soon as she figured out the correct way to nurse it (which involved twisting it up into a kind of knot, and then holding tight to its right ear and left foot to prevent it from undoing itself), she carried it outside into the fresh air. “If I don’t take this child away with me,” thought Alice, “they are certain to kill it in a day or two. Wouldn’t it be murder to leave it behind?” She said the last words out loud, and the little thing grunted in reply (it had finally stopped sneezing by this time). “Don’t grunt,” said Alice. “That is not at all a proper way of expressing yourself.”

The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into its face to see what the problem was. There was no doubt that it had a very turned-up nose, much more like a snout than a real human nose. Also, its eyes were becoming extremely small for a baby. Overall, Alice did not like the look of the creature at all. “But perhaps it was only sobbing,” she thought, and looked into its eyes again to see if there were any tears.

No, there were no tears. “If you are planning to turn into a pig, my dear,” said Alice, speaking seriously, “I will have nothing more to do with you. Remember that!” The poor little thing sobbed again (or grunted—it was impossible to tell which), and they walked on for some time in silence.

Alice was just beginning to think to herself, “Now, what exactly am I supposed to do with this creature when I get it home?” when it grunted again, so forcefully that she looked down at its face in some alarm. This time, there could be no mistake about it: it was nothing more and nothing less than a pig. She felt that it would be completely ridiculous for her to carry it any further.

So, she gently set the little pig down and felt quite relieved to watch it trot away quietly into the wood. “If it had grown up,” she said to herself, “it would have made a dreadfully ugly child. But it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.” She began thinking over other children she knew who might do very well as pigs and was just saying to herself, “if only one knew the right way to change them—” when she was a little startled to see the Cheshire Cat sitting on a branch of a tree a few yards away.

The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she thought, but it still had very long claws and a great many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

“Cheshire Puss,” she began, speaking rather timidly, as she was unsure if the Cat would like that name. However, it only grinned a little wider. “Good, it is pleased so far,” Alice thought, and she continued. “Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?”

“That depends entirely on where you want to get to,” said the Cat.

“I don’t much care where—” said Alice.

“Then it doesn’t matter at all which way you go,” said the Cat.

“—so long as I get somewhere,” Alice added as an explanation.

“Oh, you are certain to do that,” said the Cat, “if you only walk long enough.”

Alice felt that this could not possibly be argued against, so she tried a different question. “What sort of people live in this area?”

“In that direction,” the Cat said, waving its right paw in a circle, “lives a Hatter. And in that direction,” waving its other paw, “lives a March Hare. Visit whichever one you like: they are both completely mad.”

“But I don’t want to go among mad people,” Alice remarked.

“Oh, you can’t help that,” said the Cat. “We are all mad here. I’m mad. You’re mad.”

“How do you know that I am mad?” said Alice.

“You must be,” said the Cat, “or you wouldn’t have come to this place.”

Alice didn’t think that proved anything at all. However, she went on, “And how do you know that you are mad?”

“To begin with,” said the Cat, “a dog is not mad. You agree with that?”

“I suppose so,” said Alice.

“Well, then,” the Cat continued, “you see, a dog growls when it’s angry, and wags its tail when it’s pleased. Now I growl when I’m pleased, and wag my tail when I’m angry. Therefore, I am clearly mad.”

“I call that purring, not growling,” said Alice.

“Call it whatever you like,” said the Cat. “Are you playing croquet with the Queen today?”

“I would like it very much,” said Alice, “but I haven’t been invited yet.”

“You’ll see me there,” said the Cat, and it suddenly vanished completely.

Alice was not very surprised by this, as she was getting so used to extremely strange things happening. While she was looking at the exact place where the Cat had been, it suddenly reappeared.

“By the way, what exactly became of the baby?” said the Cat. “I had almost forgotten to ask.”

“It turned into a pig,” Alice said quietly, speaking just as if the Cat’s sudden return was perfectly normal.

“I thought it would,” said the Cat, and it vanished once again.

Alice waited for a little while, half expecting to see it again, but it did not reappear. After a minute or two, she started walking in the direction in which the March Hare was said to live. “I’ve seen hatters before,” she said to herself. “The March Hare will be much more interesting, and perhaps since this is May, it won’t be raving mad—at least not as mad as it was in March.” As she said this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a tree branch.

“Did you say pig, or fig?” said the Cat.

“I said pig,” replied Alice, annoyed. “And I wish you wouldn’t keep appearing and vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite dizzy.”

“All right,” said the Cat. And this time, it vanished quite slowly, beginning with the end of its tail and finishing with its wide grin, which remained hanging in the air for some time after the rest of the Cat was gone.

“Well! I’ve often seen a cat without a grin,” thought Alice, completely amazed, “but a grin without a cat! It’s the most curious thing I have ever seen in my life!”

She had not walked much farther before she came in sight of the March Hare’s house. She thought it must be the right house because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was thatched with fur. It was such a large house that she didn't want to go closer until she had nibbled some more of the left-hand piece of mushroom and raised herself to about two feet high. Even then, she walked up toward it rather timidly, saying to herself, “Suppose it should be completely raving mad after all! I almost wish I had gone to see the Hatter instead!”