The Caterpillar and Alice stared silently at each other for some time. At last, the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and addressed her in a slow, tired voice.

“Who are you?” asked the Caterpillar.

This was not an encouraging beginning to a conversation. Alice replied, feeling quite shy, “I—I hardly know, sir, exactly at the present moment. At least, I know who I was when I woke up this morning, but I think I must have changed into several different people since then.”

“What exactly do you mean by that?” said the Caterpillar sternly. “Explain yourself immediately!”

“I can’t explain myself, I’m afraid, sir,” said Alice, “because, you see, I am not myself.”

“I do not see at all,” said the Caterpillar flatly.

“I’m afraid I can’t make it any clearer,” Alice replied very politely, “because I don’t even understand it myself to begin with. And changing into so many different sizes in a single day is very, very confusing.”

“It is not confusing,” said the Caterpillar.

“Well, perhaps you haven’t found it so yet,” said Alice gently, “but when you have to turn into a chrysalis—which you will do someday, you know—and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you will find it a little strange and peculiar, won’t you?”

“Not one bit,” said the Caterpillar.

“Well, perhaps your feelings are different,” said Alice. “All I know is, it would feel very peculiar to me.”

“You!” said the Caterpillar scornfully. “Who are you?”

This brought them right back to the beginning of their conversation. Alice felt a little irritated by the Caterpillar’s extremely short and dismissive replies. She straightened herself up and said, very seriously, “I think, sir, you ought to tell me who you are, first.”

“Why?” said the Caterpillar.

Here was another confusing question. Since Alice couldn't think of a good reason, and because the Caterpillar seemed to be in a very bad mood, she decided to turn and walk away.

“Come back!” the Caterpillar called after her. “I have something important to say to you!”

This sounded promising, certainly, so Alice turned and went back to the mushroom.

“Keep your temper calm,” said the Caterpillar.

“Is that all you had to say?” said Alice, trying to suppress her anger as best as she could.

“No,” said the Caterpillar.

Alice decided she might as well wait, since she had nothing else to do, and perhaps the Caterpillar would eventually tell her something worthwhile. For a few minutes, it just puffed smoke without speaking. But at last, it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, “So, you believe you are changed, do you?”

“I’m afraid I am, sir,” said Alice. “I can’t remember things the way I used to—and I don’t stay the same size for even ten minutes in a row!”

“Can’t remember what things?” said the Caterpillar.

“Well, I tried to recite the poem ‘How doth the little busy bee,’ but it all came out wrong and completely different!” Alice replied in a very sad voice.

“Repeat the poem, ‘You are old, Father William,’” commanded the Caterpillar.

Alice folded her hands neatly and began:—

“You are old, Father William,” the young man said, “And your hair has become very white; And yet you incessantly stand on your head— Do you think, at your age, it is right?”

“In my youth,” Father William replied to his son, “I feared it might injure the brain; But, now that I’m perfectly sure I have none, Why, I do it again and again.”

“You are old,” said the youth, “as I mentioned before, And have grown most uncommonly fat; Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door— Pray, what is the reason of that?”

“In my youth,” said the sage, as he shook his grey locks, “I kept all my limbs very supple By the use of this ointment—one shilling the box— Allow me to sell you a couple?”

“You are old,” said the youth, “and your jaws are too weak For anything tougher than suet; Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak— Pray, how did you manage to do it?”

“In my youth,” said his father, “I took to the law, And argued each case with my wife; And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw, Has lasted the rest of my life.”

“You are old,” said the youth, “one would hardly suppose That your eye was as steady as ever; Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose— What made you so awfully clever?”

“I have answered three questions, and that is enough,” Said his father; “don’t give yourself airs! Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff? Be off, or I’ll kick you down stairs!”

“That is not said correctly,” said the Caterpillar.

“Not quite correctly, I’m afraid,” said Alice timidly. “Some of the words have gotten mixed up and altered.”

“It is completely wrong from beginning to end,” said the Caterpillar with certainty, and there was silence between them for several minutes.

The Caterpillar was the first to speak again.

“What size do you actually want to be?” it asked.

“Oh, I’m not demanding about the size,” Alice replied quickly, “only one really dislikes changing size so often, you know.”

“I do not know,” said the Caterpillar.

Alice stayed silent. She had never been contradicted so frequently in her life, and she could feel her temper starting to rise.

“Are you satisfied now?” said the Caterpillar.

“Well, I would like to be a little larger, sir, if you don’t mind,” said Alice. “Three inches is such a miserably short height to be.”

“It is a very good height indeed!” said the Caterpillar angrily, rising up straight as it spoke (it was exactly three inches tall itself).

“But I’m not used to it!” pleaded poor Alice in a pitiful tone. And she thought to herself, “I wish these creatures wouldn’t be so easily offended by everything!”

“You will get used to it over time,” said the Caterpillar. It put the hookah back into its mouth and began smoking again.

This time, Alice waited patiently until the Caterpillar chose to speak once more. After a minute or two, the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth, yawned once or twice, and gave itself a shake. Then it climbed down off the mushroom and crawled away slowly into the grass, merely commenting as it left, “One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you grow shorter.”

“One side of what? The other side of what?” thought Alice to herself.

“Of the mushroom,” said the Caterpillar, speaking as if she had asked the question out loud. And in another moment, it was gone from sight.

Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying to figure out which part counted as the two sides of it. Since the mushroom was perfectly round, she found this to be a very difficult problem. However, at last, she stretched her arms around it as far as they would reach and managed to break off a small bit of the edge with each hand.

“And now, which is which?” she asked herself, and she nibbled a tiny piece from the bit in her right hand to test the effect. The very next moment, she felt a violent thud right underneath her chin: her head had struck her foot!

She was greatly startled by this extremely sudden change, but she knew there was no time to lose, as she was shrinking rapidly back toward the ground. So, she immediately set to work to eat some of the other piece. Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot that there was barely enough room to open her mouth. But she managed it at last and succeeded in swallowing a morsel of the bit in her left hand.

“Come, my head’s free at last!” said Alice in a tone of great relief, which changed to alarm in the very next moment when she realized her shoulders were nowhere in sight. All she could see when she looked down was an immense length of neck, which seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of bright green leaves that lay far below her.

“What can all that green stuff be?” said Alice. “And where have my shoulders gone? And oh, my poor hands, why can’t I see you?” She was moving her hands about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow, except a slight rustling and shaking among the distant green leaves.

Since there was no hope of getting her hands up to her head, she tried to get her head down to them and was delighted to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction, just like a snake or a serpent. She had just managed to curve it down into a graceful zigzag pattern and was about to dive in among the leaves—which she realized were simply the tops of the trees she had been wandering under—when a sharp hiss made her pull back in a hurry. A large Pigeon had flown right into her face and was beating her violently with its wings.

“Serpent!” screamed the Pigeon.

“I’m not a serpent!” said Alice indignantly. “Leave me alone!”

“Serpent, I say again!” repeated the Pigeon, but in a slightly less aggressive tone, and added with a sound that was almost a sob, “I’ve tried every single way to hide them, and nothing seems to work for them!”

“I haven’t the slightest idea what you are talking about,” said Alice.

“I’ve tried the roots of trees, and I’ve tried banks, and I’ve tried hedges,” the Pigeon went on, ignoring her completely. “But those serpents! There is simply no pleasing them!”

Alice grew more and more puzzled, but she decided there was no point in saying anything else until the Pigeon had finished its complaint.

“As if it wasn’t enough trouble just hatching the eggs,” said the Pigeon angrily, “but I must also be on the constant lookout for serpents night and day! Why, I haven’t had a wink of sleep in three weeks!”

“I’m very sorry you’ve been bothered,” said Alice, who was beginning to understand what the Pigeon was afraid of.

“And just when I had taken the highest tree in the entire wood,” continued the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, “and just when I was thinking I would be free of them at last, they have to come wriggling down from the sky! Ugh, Serpent!”

“But I am not a serpent, I tell you!” said Alice. “I’m a—I’m a—”

“Well! What are you, then?” said the Pigeon. “I can clearly see you’re trying desperately to invent something!”

“I—I’m a little girl,” said Alice, sounding rather doubtful, as she remembered all the size changes she had gone through that day.

“A likely story indeed!” said the Pigeon in a tone of profound contempt. “I have seen many little girls in my time, but never one with a neck like that! No, no! You are a serpent; and there is no point in denying it. I suppose you’ll tell me next that you’ve never even tasted an egg!”

“I have tasted eggs, certainly,” said Alice, who was a very truthful child. “But little girls eat eggs just as much as serpents do, you know.”

“I don’t believe it,” said the Pigeon. “But if they do, well then, they are simply a kind of serpent themselves. That is all I can conclude.”

This was such a completely new idea to Alice that she was silent for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the chance to add, “You’re looking for eggs, I know that well enough. And what difference does it make to me whether you are a little girl or a serpent?”

“It makes a great difference to me,” said Alice quickly. “But as it happens, I am not looking for eggs; and even if I was, I shouldn’t want yours: I don’t like them raw.”

“Well, be off with you, then!” said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it settled back down into its nest. Alice crouched down among the trees as best as she could, because her long neck kept getting tangled up among the branches, and she frequently had to stop and untwist it. After a while, she remembered that she still held the pieces of the mushroom in her hands. She set to work very carefully, nibbling first at one piece and then at the other, growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had finally managed to bring herself down to her usual, normal size.

It had been so long since she was anywhere near the right size that it felt quite strange at first. But she quickly got used to it and began talking to herself, as usual. “Come, that’s half of my plan completed now! How completely confusing all these size changes are! I am never certain what I am going to be, from one minute to the next! However, I’ve returned to my right size. The next thing I have to do is get into that beautiful garden—how is that to be done, I wonder?” As she said this, she suddenly came upon an open space where there was a little house, only about four feet high. “Whoever lives there,” thought Alice, “it definitely won't do to approach them at this size. Why, I would scare them completely out of their wits!” So, she began nibbling at the bit of mushroom in her right hand again and didn't dare to go near the house until she had successfully shrunk herself down to a height of nine inches.