The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one of his flappers across his eyes. He looked at Alice and tried to speak, but for a minute or two, sobs completely choked his voice. “Same as if he had a bone stuck in his throat,” said the Gryphon, and it immediately set to work shaking him and punching him hard in the back. At last, the Mock Turtle recovered his voice, and with tears still running down his cheeks, he continued:—

“You may not have spent much time living under the sea—” (“I haven’t,” said Alice)—“and perhaps you were never even properly introduced to a lobster—” (Alice started to say, “I once tasted—” but checked herself hastily, and said, “No, never”) “—so you can have no idea what a truly delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille is!”

“No, indeed,” said Alice. “What sort of a dance is it exactly?”

“Why,” said the Gryphon, “you first form yourselves into a line all along the sea-shore—”

“Two lines!” cried the Mock Turtle, interrupting. “Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on; then, when you’ve successfully cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way—”

“That generally takes quite some time,” interrupted the Gryphon.

“—you advance twice—”

“Each with a lobster as a partner!” cried the Gryphon excitedly.

“Of course,” the Mock Turtle said. “Advance twice, set to partners—”

“—change lobsters, and retire in the same order,” continued the Gryphon.

“Then, you know,” the Mock Turtle went on, “you throw the—”

“The lobsters!” shouted the Gryphon, leaping with a bound into the air.

“—as far out to sea as you possibly can—”

“Swim after them!” screamed the Gryphon.

“Turn a somersault in the sea!” cried the Mock Turtle, capering wildly about.

“Change lobsters again!” yelled the Gryphon at the very top of its voice.

“Back to land again, and that’s all of the first figure,” said the Mock Turtle, suddenly lowering his voice. The two creatures, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.

“It must be a very pretty dance,” said Alice timidly.

“Would you like to watch a little bit of it?” said the Mock Turtle.

“Very much indeed,” said Alice.

“Come, let’s try the first figure!” said the Mock Turtle to the Gryphon. “We can manage without lobsters, you know. Which of us shall sing?”

“Oh, you sing,” said the Gryphon. “I’ve forgotten the actual words.”

So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and waving their forepaws to keep the beat, while the Mock Turtle sang this, very slowly and sadly:—

“Will you walk a little faster?” said a whiting to a snail. “There’s a porpoise close behind us, and he’s treading on my tail. See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance! They are waiting on the shingle—will you come and join the dance? Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance? Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?

“You can really have no notion how delightful it will be When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to sea!” But the snail replied “Too far, too far!” and gave a look askance— Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the dance. Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join the dance. Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join the dance.

“What matters it how far we go?” his scaly friend replied. “There is another shore, you know, upon the other side. The further off from England the nearer is to France— Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance. Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, will you join the dance? Will you, won’t you, will you, won’t you, won’t you join the dance?”

“Thank you, it’s a very interesting dance to watch,” said Alice, feeling very glad that it was finally over. “And I do so like that curious song about the whiting!”

“Oh, as to the whiting,” said the Mock Turtle, “they—you’ve certainly seen them, of course?”

“Yes,” said Alice, “I’ve often seen them at dinn—” she checked herself hastily.

“I don’t know where Dinn may be,” said the Mock Turtle, “but if you’ve seen them so often, of course, you know what they look like.”

“I believe so,” Alice replied thoughtfully. “They have their tails held in their mouths—and they’re entirely covered in crumbs.”

“You are quite wrong about the crumbs,” said the Mock Turtle. “Crumbs would all wash off immediately in the sea. But they do have their tails in their mouths; and the reason is—” here the Mock Turtle yawned widely and shut his eyes. “Tell her about the reason and all that,” he instructed the Gryphon.

“The reason is,” said the Gryphon, “that they would insist on going with the lobsters to the dance. So they got thrown far out to sea. So they had a very long way to fall. So they got their tails stuck fast in their mouths. So they couldn’t get them out again. That’s everything.”

“Thank you,” said Alice. “It’s very interesting. I never knew so much about a whiting before.”

“I can tell you even more than that, if you wish,” said the Gryphon. “Do you know why it’s called a whiting?”

“I never thought about it,” said Alice. “Why?”

“It polishes the boots and shoes,” the Gryphon replied very solemnly.

Alice was thoroughly puzzled. “Polishes the boots and shoes!” she repeated in a questioning, wondering tone.

“Why, what are your shoes polished with?” said the Gryphon. “I mean, what makes them so shiny?”

Alice looked down at her own shoes and considered for a little while before giving her answer. “They’re polished with blacking, I believe.”

“Boots and shoes under the sea,” the Gryphon went on in a deep voice, “are polished with a whiting. Now you know the full story.”

“And what are they made of?” Alice asked in a tone of great curiosity.

“Soles and eels, naturally,” the Gryphon replied rather impatiently. “Any shrimp could have told you that much.”

“If I’d been the whiting,” said Alice, whose thoughts were still preoccupied with the song, “I’d have said to the porpoise, ‘Keep back, please: we don’t want you with us!’”

“They were obliged to have him with them,” the Mock Turtle said. “No sensible fish would go anywhere at all without a porpoise.”

“Wouldn’t it really?” said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

“Of course not,” said the Mock Turtle. “Why, if a fish came to me, and told me he was going on a journey, I should immediately say, ‘With what porpoise?’”

“Don’t you mean ‘purpose’?” said Alice.

“I mean what I say,” the Mock Turtle replied in a very offended tone. And the Gryphon added, “Come, let’s hear some of your adventures.”

“I could tell you my adventures—beginning from this very morning,” said Alice a little timidly. “But there’s no use going back to yesterday, because I was a completely different person then.”

“Explain all that to us,” said the Mock Turtle.

“No, no! The adventures first,” said the Gryphon in an impatient tone. “Explanations take such a dreadful amount of time.”

So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when she first saw the White Rabbit. She was a little nervous about it at first, as the two creatures got so close to her, one on each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so very wide, but she gained courage as she went on speaking. Her listeners were perfectly quiet until she got to the part about her repeating “You are old, Father William,” to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming out different. Then the Mock Turtle drew a long, gasping breath and said, “That’s very curious indeed.”

“It’s all about as curious as things can possibly be,” said the Gryphon.

“It all came out different!” the Mock Turtle repeated thoughtfully. “I should very much like to hear her try and repeat something now. Tell her to begin.” He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

“Stand up and repeat ‘’Tis the voice of the sluggard,’” said the Gryphon.

“How these creatures order one about, and make one repeat lessons!” thought Alice. “I might as well be back at school immediately.” However, she got up and began to repeat it, but her head was so full of the Lobster Quadrille that she hardly knew what she was saying, and the words came out very queer indeed:—

“’Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare, “You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair.” As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.”

“That’s different from what I used to say when I was a child,” said the Gryphon.

“Well, I never heard it before,” said the Mock Turtle, “but it sounds like extraordinary nonsense.”

Alice said nothing. She had sat down with her face in her hands, wondering if anything would ever happen in a natural way again.

“I should like to have it explained to me,” said the Mock Turtle.

“She can’t explain it,” said the Gryphon hastily. “Go on with the next verse.”

“But what about his toes?” the Mock Turtle persisted. “How could he turn them out with his nose, you know?”

“It’s the first position in dancing,” Alice said, trying to explain, but she was dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing and longed to change the subject.

“Go on with the next verse,” the Gryphon repeated impatiently. “It begins ‘I passed by his garden.’”

Alice did not dare to disobey, although she felt absolutely sure it would all come out wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:—

“I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye, How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie—”

“What is the use of repeating all that rubbish,” the Mock Turtle interrupted, “if you don’t explain it as you go along? It’s by far the most confusing thing I ever heard!”

“Yes, I think you’d better leave off,” said the Gryphon, and Alice was only too glad to do so.

“Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?” the Gryphon went on. “Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?”

“Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,” Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather offended tone, “Hm! There’s no accounting for tastes! Sing her ‘Turtle Soup,’ will you, old fellow?”

The Mock Turtle sighed deeply and began, in a voice sometimes choked with sobs, to sing this:—

“Beautiful Soup, so rich and green, Waiting in a hot tureen! Who for such dainties would not stoop? Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup! Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup! Beau—ootiful Soo—oop! Beau—ootiful Soo—oop! Soo—oop of the e—e—evening, Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

“Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish, Game, or any other dish? Who would not give all else for two p ennyworth only of beautiful Soup? Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup? Beau—ootiful Soo—oop! Beau—ootiful Soo—oop! Soo—oop of the e—e—evening, Beautiful, beauti—FUL SOUP!”

“Chorus again!” cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had just begun to repeat it when a cry of “The trial’s beginning!” was heard clearly in the distance.

“Come on!” cried the Gryphon, and taking Alice by the hand, it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

“What trial is it?” Alice panted as she ran, but the Gryphon only answered, “Come on!” and ran even faster, while more and more faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the melancholy words:—

“Soo—oop of the e—e—evening, Beautiful, beautiful Soup!”