The White Rabbit was trotting slowly back again, looking around anxiously as if he had lost something very important. Alice could hear him muttering sadly to himself, “The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh, my dear paws! Oh, my fur and whiskers! She will have me executed, as surely as ferrets are ferrets! Where can I have dropped them, I wonder?” Alice quickly realized that he was searching for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves she had picked up earlier. She kindly began to look for them, too, but they were nowhere to be seen. Everything seemed to have disappeared or changed since she had swum in the pool of tears; the great hall, the glass table, and the little door had all completely vanished.

Very soon, the Rabbit noticed Alice searching nearby and called out to her in a very angry voice, “Why, Mary Ann, what are you doing wandering out here? Run straight home this minute, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan! Quickly, now!” Alice was so startled and frightened by his demanding tone that she immediately ran off in the direction he pointed, without even trying to explain that she was not his housemaid, Mary Ann.

“He mistook me for his servant,” she said to herself as she ran. “How incredibly surprised he will be when he discovers who I really am! But I had better take him his fan and gloves—that is, if I can find them.” As she finished this thought, she arrived at a neat, small house. On the front door was a shining brass plate with the name “W. RABBIT” clearly engraved on it. She walked straight into the house without knocking. She hurried upstairs, worried that she might run into the real Mary Ann and be thrown out of the house before she could find the fan and the gloves.

“How strange it feels,” Alice mused to herself, “to be running errands for a rabbit! I suppose my own cat, Dinah, will be sending me on errands next!” She started imagining the kind of things that might happen: “‘Miss Alice! Come here immediately, and get ready for your walk!’ ‘Coming in a minute, Nurse! But I have to make sure the mouse doesn’t get out.’ Although,” Alice continued, thinking logically, “I don’t think they would allow Dinah to stay in the house if she started ordering people around like that!”

By this time, she had found her way into a clean, small room. There was a table near the window, and on it (just as she had hoped) were a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves. She picked up the fan and a pair of the gloves and was just about to leave when her eye caught a little bottle sitting near the looking-glass. This bottle did not have the label that read “DRINK ME,” but she uncorked it anyway and brought it to her lips. “I know that something interesting is always certain to happen,” she said to herself, “whenever I eat or drink anything in this place. So, I’ll just see what this bottle does. I truly hope it will make me grow large again, because I am completely tired of being such a tiny little thing!”

It did make her grow, and much faster than she had expected! Before she had even finished half the bottle, she found her head pressing hard against the ceiling. She had to quickly bend over to avoid breaking her neck. She put the bottle down instantly, saying to herself, “That is quite enough—I really hope I don’t grow any more! As it is, I can’t fit out the door. I wish I hadn’t drunk quite so much!”

Alas! It was too late for wishing! She continued growing and growing. Very soon, she had to kneel down on the floor to fit in the room. Within another minute, there wasn't even enough space for her to kneel, so she tried lying down, with one elbow pushed against the door and her other arm curled awkwardly around her head. Still, she continued to expand, and as a very last resort, she pushed one arm out of the window and stuck one foot up the chimney. “Now I cannot do anything more, no matter what happens,” she told herself. “What will become of me?”

Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now fully used its power, and she grew no bigger. Still, her situation was extremely uncomfortable, and since there seemed to be no way at all that she could ever get out of the room again, it was no wonder she felt very unhappy.

“It was much nicer and more pleasant at home,” thought poor Alice, “where one wasn’t constantly changing size, growing larger and then smaller, and being bossed around by mice and rabbits. I almost wish I had never gone down that rabbit-hole—and yet—and yet—this kind of life is quite fascinating, you know! I truly wonder what can have happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I imagined that sort of thing never actually occurred, and now here I am right in the middle of one! There really ought to be a whole book written about me! And when I grow up, I will certainly write one—but I am grown up now,” she added in a sad voice, “at least there is no room to grow up any more here.”

“But then,” Alice continued, thinking things through, “shall I never get any older than I am right now? That would be a relief in one way—never having to be an old woman—but then—always having new lessons to learn! Oh, I wouldn’t like that!”

“Oh, you foolish Alice!” she answered herself. “How can you possibly learn lessons in here? Why, there is barely enough room for you, and absolutely no room at all for any lesson-books!”

And so she went on, arguing with herself, taking one side of the debate and then the other, creating quite a full conversation all by herself. After a few minutes of this, she heard a voice speaking outside and stopped to listen closely.

“Mary Ann! Mary Ann!” said the voice. “Fetch me my gloves immediately!” Then came the sound of quick, tiny footsteps on the stairs. Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and she trembled so much that she shook the entire house, completely forgetting that she was now about a thousand times the size of the Rabbit and had absolutely no reason to be afraid of him.

Presently, the Rabbit came up to the door and tried to push it open. But since the door opened inward and Alice’s elbow was pushed firmly against it, the attempt failed completely. Alice heard him say to himself, “Then I’ll go all the way around and get in through the window.”

“That you won’t!” Alice thought quickly. After waiting until she thought she heard the Rabbit directly under the window, she suddenly spread out her huge hand and made a quick snatch in the air outside. She didn't actually grab hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek, followed by a tumbling fall, and the crash of broken glass. From these sounds, she decided that the Rabbit had most likely fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something similar.

Next came an angry voice—the Rabbit’s—“Pat! Pat! Where are you?” And then she heard a new voice she had never heard before, speaking with a rough accent, “Sure then I’m here! Digging for apples, yer honour!”

“Digging for apples, indeed!” said the Rabbit angrily. “Here! Come and help me get out of this mess!” (This was followed by the sounds of more broken glass.)

“Now tell me, Pat, what is that big thing in the window?”

“Sure, it’s an arm, yer honour!” (He pronounced the word “arrum.”)

“An arm, you fool! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it takes up the entire window!”

“Sure, it does, yer honour: but it’s an arm all the same.”

“Well, it has no right to be there, no matter what it is: go and take it away!”

There was a long silence after this order, and Alice could only hear soft whispers now and then, such as, “Indeed, I don’t like it, yer honour, not at all!” “Do exactly as I tell you, you coward!” At last, Alice spread out her hand again and made another sudden grab in the air. This time, there were two little shrieks, and more sounds of crashing glass. “What a large number of cucumber-frames there must be here!” thought Alice. “I wonder what their plan will be next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they could! I am certain I don’t want to stay trapped in here any longer!”

She waited for quite some time without hearing anything new. At last, there came the rumbling sound of small cartwheels and the noise of many voices all talking over one another. She managed to clearly hear the words: “Where is the other ladder?—Why, I was only supposed to bring one; Bill has the other—Bill! fetch it here, boy!—Here, put them up at this corner—No, tie them together first—they don’t reach half high enough yet—Oh! they’ll work well enough; don’t be so fussy—Here, Bill! grab hold of this rope—Will the roof hold our weight?—Watch out for that loose slate—Oh, it’s coming down! Get your heads down!” (This was followed by a loud crash)—“Now, who caused that?—It was Bill, I think—Who is supposed to go down the chimney?—No, I refuse! You do it!—I won’t do that, then!—Bill is the one who has to go down—Here, Bill! the master says you are the one who is to go down the chimney!”

“Oh! So Bill is the unlucky one who has to come down the chimney, is he?” Alice said to herself. “They seem to put every difficult job upon Bill! I wouldn’t trade places with Bill for anything! This fireplace is narrow, it’s true, but I think I can manage to kick a little!”

She drew her foot as far down into the chimney as she could comfortably reach and waited until she heard a small animal (she couldn't quite guess what sort it was) scratching and scrambling loudly in the chimney just above her. Then, saying to herself, “This must be Bill,” she gave one sharp, strong kick and waited excitedly to see what would happen next.

The first thing she heard was a general shout in unison: “There goes Bill!” Then the Rabbit’s voice yelled, “Catch him, you by the hedge!” Then there was a brief silence, followed by another confused noise of voices: “Hold up his head—Give him some brandy now—Don’t let him choke—What happened, old fellow? Tell us exactly what occurred!”

Last of all came a faint, high-pitched squeaking voice. (“That’s Bill,” Alice thought.) “Well, I can hardly remember—No more, thank you; I’m feeling better now—but I’m far too shaken up and confused to tell you the whole story—all I know is, something sprang out at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and I shot up into the air like a sky-rocket!”

“So you did, old fellow!” the others confirmed.

“We must burn the house down!” said the Rabbit’s voice fiercely. Alice yelled out as loudly as she could, “If you try to do that, I will set Dinah on all of you!”

There was instant, dead silence. Alice thought to herself, “I wonder what they will try to do next! If they had any sense, they would simply take the roof off the house.” After a minute or two, they began moving around outside again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, “A wheelbarrow full of something will be enough to begin with.”

“A wheelbarrow full of what?” Alice wondered. But she didn't have to wonder for long, because the very next moment, a shower of little pebbles came rattling in through the window, and some of them hit her in the face. “I will stop this immediately,” she said to herself, and shouted out, “You had better not do that again!” This warning produced another moment of complete silence.

Alice then noticed, with some surprise, that the pebbles that had landed on the floor were all turning into little cakes. A brilliant idea popped into her head. “If I eat one of these small cakes,” she thought, “it is bound to make some kind of change in my size. And since it can’t possibly make me any larger than I already am, it must make me smaller, I suppose.”

So, she swallowed one of the small cakes and was thrilled to find that she started shrinking immediately. As soon as she was small enough to fit through the door, she ran out of the house. Outside, she found quite a large crowd of small animals and birds waiting. The poor little Lizard, Bill, was sitting in the middle, being supported by two guinea-pigs who were giving him something to drink from a bottle. They all made a rush toward Alice the moment she appeared, but she ran off as fast as she could and soon found herself safe in a thick wood.

“The first thing I absolutely must do,” Alice said to herself, as she wandered through the trees, “is to grow back to my normal size. And the second thing is to find the path that leads into that beautiful garden. I think that is the best plan to follow.”

It certainly sounded like an excellent plan, and very clearly and simply organized. The only real difficulty was that she had no idea at all how to start the growing process. While she was peering around anxiously among the trees, a sharp little bark just over her head made her look up in a great hurry.

An enormous Puppy was looking down at her with large, round eyes, weakly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her. “Poor little thing!” said Alice, speaking in a kind, soft voice, and she tried hard to whistle to it, but she was absolutely terrified the whole time. She worried that the Puppy might be hungry, in which case it would very likely eat her up despite all her gentle coaxing.

Hardly knowing what she was doing, she picked up a tiny bit of stick and held it out toward the Puppy. Immediately, the Puppy jumped into the air off all four feet at once, giving a yelp of pure delight. It rushed at the stick and pretended to shake and tear at it playfully. Alice then quickly dodged behind a large thistle plant to avoid being accidentally run over by the huge creature. The moment she showed herself on the other side, the Puppy made another dash for the stick and tumbled head over heels in its excitement to grab it. Alice, realizing that this was like playing a game with a massive cart-horse, and expecting every second to be crushed under its feet, ran around the thistle again. The Puppy then started a series of short, quick lunges at the stick, running forward only a small distance each time and then running a long way back, barking hoarsely all the while. Finally, it sat down panting a good distance away, with its tongue hanging out of its mouth and its huge eyes half-closed.

Alice saw this as a perfect chance to escape. She set off immediately and ran until she was quite tired and completely out of breath, and until the sound of the Puppy’s bark was only a faint noise in the distance.

“And yet what a dear little Puppy it was!” said Alice, leaning against a buttercup flower to rest and fanning herself with one of its leaves. “I would have loved to teach it tricks very much, if—if only I had been the right size to do it! Oh dear! I had almost forgotten that I must grow up again! Let me see—how is it supposed to be managed? I suppose I must eat or drink something, or other; but the big question is, what?”

The big question certainly was, what? Alice looked all around her, examining the flowers and the blades of grass, but she couldn’t see anything that looked like the right kind of thing to eat or drink in this situation. There was a large mushroom growing close to her, about the same height as she was now. After she had looked underneath it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it suddenly occurred to her that she might as well look and see what was on the very top of it.

She stretched herself up onto her tiptoes and peered over the edge of the mushroom. Her eyes immediately met those of a large blue Caterpillar, which was sitting calmly on the top with its arms folded, quietly smoking a long pipe called a hookah, and paying not the slightest attention to her or anything else around them.