The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when Alice and the Gryphon arrived, with a large crowd assembled around them—all sorts of small birds and animals, as well as the complete pack of cards. The Knave was standing before them, held in chains, with a soldier on each side to guard him, and near the King was the White Rabbit, holding a trumpet in one hand and a scroll of parchment in the other. In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large dish of tarts upon it. They looked so appetizing that it made Alice quite hungry just to look at them—“I wish they’d finish the trial,” she thought, “and hand around the refreshments!” But there seemed to be no chance of this happening soon, so she began looking intently at everything around her to pass the time.

Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that she knew the name of nearly everything there. “That’s the judge,” she said to herself, “because of his great, bushy wig.”

The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown over the wig, he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming on him.

“And that’s the jury-box,” thought Alice, “and those twelve creatures,” (she was forced to say “creatures,” you see, because some of them were animals, and some were birds,) “I suppose they are the jurors.” She repeated this last word two or three times to herself, being rather proud of it, for she thought, and rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew what it meant at all. However, “jury-men” would have served just as well.

The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates. “What are they doing?” Alice whispered to the Gryphon. “They can’t possibly have anything to write down yet, before the trial has even begun.”

“They’re writing down their names,” the Gryphon whispered in reply, “for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial.”

“Stupid things!” Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped herself hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, “Silence in the court!” and the King put on his spectacles and looked anxiously around, trying to determine who was speaking.

Alice could see, as clearly as if she were looking right over their shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down “stupid things!” on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them did not know how to spell the word “stupid,” and that he had to ask his neighbor to tell him. “What a nice muddle their slates will be in before the trial is over!” thought Alice.

One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked irritatingly. This, of course, Alice could not endure, and she went quietly around the court and got behind him, and very soon found an opportunity to take it away. She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was Bill, the Lizard) could not figure out at all what had become of it. So, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very little use, as it left no mark whatsoever on the slate.

“Herald, read the accusation!” said the King.

Upon this command, the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and then unrolled the parchment scroll and read as follows:—

“The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts, All on a summer day: The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts, And took them quite away!”

“Consider your verdict,” the King said to the jury immediately.

“Not yet, not yet!” the Rabbit hastily interrupted. “There is a great deal of evidence to come before that!”

“Call the first witness,” said the King; and the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet and called out, “First witness!”

The first witness was the Hatter. He came in holding a teacup in one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other. “I beg your pardon, your Majesty,” he began, “for bringing these items in: but I hadn’t quite finished my tea when I was sent for.”

“You ought to have finished,” said the King. “When did you begin your tea?”

The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse. “The fourteenth of March, I think it was,” he said.

“The fifteenth,” said the March Hare.

“The sixteenth,” added the Dormouse.

“Write that down,” the King said to the jury, and the jury eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then added them up, and reduced the total answer to shillings and pence.

“Take off your hat,” the King said to the Hatter.

“It isn’t mine,” said the Hatter.

“Stolen!” the King exclaimed triumphantly, turning to the jury, who instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

“I keep them to sell,” the Hatter added as an explanation. “I have none of my own. I am a hatter.”

Here the Queen put on her spectacles and began staring intently at the Hatter, who immediately turned pale and fidgeted nervously.

“Give your evidence,” said the King. “And don’t be nervous, or I’ll have you executed on the spot.”

This threat did not seem to encourage the witness at all. He kept shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the Queen, and in his utter confusion, he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

Just at this moment, Alice felt a very curious sensation, which puzzled her a good deal until she figured out what it was: she was beginning to grow larger again. She thought at first she should get up and leave the court, but on second thought, she decided to remain where she was as long as there was still room for her.

“I wish you wouldn’t squeeze so,” said the Dormouse, who was sitting right next to her. “I can hardly breathe.”

“I can’t help it,” said Alice very meekly. “I’m growing.”

“You have no right to grow here,” said the Dormouse.

“Don’t talk nonsense,” said Alice more boldly. “You know you’re growing too.”

“Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,” said the Dormouse. “Not in that ridiculous fashion.” And he got up very sulkily and crossed over to the other side of the court.

All this time, the Queen had never stopped staring at the Hatter, and just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to one of the officers of the court, “Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert!” At this, the wretched Hatter trembled so much that he shook both of his shoes off.

“Give your evidence,” the King repeated angrily, “or I’ll have you executed, whether you’re nervous or not.”

“I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” the Hatter began, in a trembling voice, “—and I hadn’t begun my tea—not above a week or so—and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin—and the twinkling of the tea—”

“The twinkling of the what?” said the King.

“It began with the tea,” the Hatter replied.

“Of course, twinkling begins with a T!” said the King sharply. “Do you take me for a dunce? Go on!”

“I’m a poor man,” the Hatter went on, “and most things twinkled after that—only the March Hare said—”

“I didn’t!” the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

“You did!” said the Hatter.

“I deny it!” said the March Hare.

“He denies it,” said the King. “Leave out that part.”

“Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said—” the Hatter went on, looking anxiously around to see if he would deny it too. But the Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.

“After that,” continued the Hatter, “I cut some more bread-and-butter—”

“But what did the Dormouse say?” one of the jury members asked.

“That I can’t remember,” said the Hatter.

“You must remember,” remarked the King, “or I’ll have you executed.”

The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter and went down on one knee. “I’m a poor man, your Majesty,” he began.

“You’re a very poor speaker,” said the King.

Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court. (As that is rather a harsh word, I will just explain to you how it was done. They had a large canvas bag, which was tied up at the mouth with strings; into this, they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat down upon it.)

“I’m glad I’ve seen that done,” thought Alice. “I’ve so often read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, ‘There was some attempt at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the court,’ and I never understood what it meant until now.”

“If that’s all you know about it, you may stand down,” continued the King.

“I can’t go no lower,” said the Hatter. “I’m on the floor, as it is.”

“Then you may sit down,” the King replied.

Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed as well.

“Come, that finishes the guinea-pigs!” thought Alice. “Now we shall get on much better.”

“I’d rather finish my tea,” said the Hatter, with an anxious look at the Queen, who was still reading the list of singers.

“You may go,” said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the court, without even waiting to put his shoes back on.

“—and just take his head off outside,” the Queen added to one of the officers. But the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could even get to the door.

“Call the next witness!” said the King.

The next witness was the Duchess’s cook. She carried the pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began sneezing all at once.

“Give your evidence,” said the King.

“Shan’t,” said the cook flatly.

The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a low voice, “Your Majesty must cross-examine this witness.”

“Well, if I must, I must,” the King said, with a melancholy air, and after folding his arms and frowning at the cook until his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, “What are tarts made of?”

“Pepper, mostly,” said the cook.

“Treacle,” said a sleepy voice from behind her.

“Collar that Dormouse,” the Queen shrieked out. “Behead that Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his whiskers!”

For some minutes, the whole court was in utter confusion, trying to get the Dormouse turned out, and by the time they had settled down again, the cook had disappeared.

“Never mind!” said the King, with an air of great relief. “Call the next witness.” And he added in an undertone to the Queen, “Really, my dear, you must cross-examine the next witness. It quite makes my forehead ache!”

Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled nervously over the list, feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like, “—for they haven’t got much evidence yet,” she said to herself. Imagine her surprise when the White Rabbit read out, at the top of his shrill little voice, the name “Alice!”